I"c<p>He’s talking about quantifying the manifestations of cooperativeness.</p>

<p>What i’d say is that generally people don’t…, this is like the sort of utilitarian logic. So the idea that people are basically, uh, hardwired to bank favors based on utility, and that they would basically go to that bank of favors and think did this person do this for me. So therefore I ought to be cooperative in this next round of the game. This next interaction I have with them. There is an extension. But I think there’s huge individual differences. And I really do think that the reason is that most people don’t, don’t actually think like that. I think most people don’t do social accounting. They’re driven by emotions which would produce cooperation, which which can often be domain general rather than domain specific.</p>

<p>So that they’ll just be unconditionally cooperative because they’re oriented to be that way. That’s true. That’s, I understand that. I agree with you. But there isn’t also an extent to which people will become aware in relationships that it’s onesided, that they’re doing all the work, and that somebody else is benefiting, and that it’s, what, it’s lopsided. That can certainly happen. But at the same time, I would also say that sort of really strict, utilitarian type reciprocal altruism is…, I mean, it’s something economists love studying. They absolutely love studying it. But my theory is there are a lot of psychopaths in the field of economics, and that’s why they like studying these things. It’s the same with these, you know, these moral, moral philosophers who do all these trolley cart experiments and things. I, my opinion is there’s a lot of actual sociopaths in moral philosophy. And what they’re doing is, they’re constructing, they’re constructing these moral experiments which are based on moral reference frames that they can understand, like reciprocation, rather than unconditional altruism. They don’t get the idea people can just be unconditionally good. They believe that people can only be good when certain incentive structures are present.</p>
:ET