I"Y<p>What would happen it contracpetion existed in a harsh, predictable ecology?</p>

<p>I don’t think so. I’ll tell you why. Because these terms have a very specific meaning. These are what are known as dimensions of environmental risk. And they are two different dimensions. And yes, in theory, you could have like a contingency two by two contingency table where you have each of these permutations. But if you look at what they actually mean, you can see that some permutations are sort of forbidden by default. The meaning of a predictable environment is basically one in which the, uh, you know, harshness and predictability are quite highly related to each other.</p>

<p>Predictability and harshness, right? So you have predictability relates to the degree to which the mortality is predictable. So you can have, for example, seasons, right? You know that when it’s really cold, you have more mortality. When it’s really warm, you have less mortality. Therefore, in an environment where you have regular seasonality, you have predictability. Harshness refers to variance in mortality. Okay, so this is the instability in mortality. So where you have very highly harsh environments, you have, you have, you have a mortality schedule that’s very difficult to predict. Where you have a very predictable environment, you might have high absolute mortality under certain circumstances. You might have low absolute mortality under other circumstances. But one thing that mortality isn’t is unpredictable.</p>

<p>So a predictable environment is not necessarily a harsh environment. Okay. And this is an interesting sort of distinction, you can have environments which are where the mortality is very high, but this is not necessarily, a harsh environment, in the sense that the predictability is, I’m sorry, but predictability is absent. In other words, you can anticipate the mortality. And you can, in theory, control the mortality. You can actually reduce the absolute levels of mortality by developing cognitive and conative that’s personality and behavioral dispositions that actually favor low time preferences, high iq. So you can do resource provisioning, and you can buffer against those periods from the environmental environmental conditions are going to be associated with very high mortality.</p>

<p>So in other words, in a harsh in in a predictable mortality context, you are actually able to control that mortality, because you can anticipate it. It’s as simple as a harsh environment. In a purely harsh environment, there’s no predictability. Everything is just random. The death is completely random, right? So there’s no way you can predict that. So you have to develop other coping strategies. And the best coping strategy for that is to be sort of jackable trades. You’re just a generalist. You can never predict which niche is going to be there at any point in the future. You have a sort of unpredictability schemata. You don’t invest too much in any one thing. You tend to sort of jump from niche to niche. And you’re very opportunist. You’re very good at spotting new opportunities as they open up in the ecosystem. You’re very good at rapidly exploiting those opportunities, and you’re very good at getting out of there when those opportunities dry up. And when the environment shifts in unpredictable ways, you’re very good at spotting that novelty.</p>
:ET