I"<p>You mentioned the correlation of low g and authoritarianism. Can the point of something like a government check change? Can can the point of something like a government change be predicted by Iq average?</p>

<p>It’s thought that you need an iq, a mean, Iq one in the low 90s in order to make democracies sustainable. So if iq were to drop below that, then democracy would no longer be sustainable.</p>

<p>So that would be one example of what he’s talking about there, right? And so and so then, yes. And then the the the reverse. Turkey was under didn’t industrialized until quite late, so it was under this intense selection and whatever, uh, under out of turk, it could be argued it reaches a point where, although it does need someone like that, a kind of genius fellow to bring them up, and then it creates democracy. And it has problems sustaining it. Turkey has an iq of about 88. I think I’m right. I’m saying and and so that’s consistent the fact that it has problems sustaining it. There’s always been these periods where it has to go into dictatorship.</p>

<p>Whereas with the higher Iq countries, there seems to be less of a problem sustaining democracy, unless they are under very intense stress, such as Germany in the 30s or whatever.</p>

<p>The research indicates that we were at our iq peak around about 1800. And then the degree to which the England was democratic was very limited. I mean, democracy was limited to a social class, and it was highly corrupt. And it’s subsequent to that, as Iq starts to go down, that that, democracy starts to go up. So I’m but that’s not consistent with this.</p>

<p>Lets not forget there are other factors which affect democracy. The biggest factor is the levels of cousin marriage. And we showed that you could throw dozens and dozens of predictors at various measures of democracy, and the one which always came out tops was the percentage of cousin marriages. And this is obvious, because you have consanguineous mating leads to tribalism, essentially, in families. And you don’t get trust, so it destroys trust. And, uh, you can’t have high trust in a society or everyone is clanish. So as a result of that, the, this is a point Steve Saylor made in a, in a chapter he wrote for a book edited by Stephen Pinker back in 2004. He the cousin marriage conundrum. Sailor called it the cousin marriage conundrum. So he was really the first to talk about this, more or less. He is right about that, and the cousin marriage is the biggest predictor of democracy.</p>

<p>I’m talking about instances where 60 percent or more of marriages are to first or even double first cousins. So it could be places like Iraq, uh, Pakistan, um, places like Afghanistan, where they’ve been practicing this patrilocal consanguinity for God knows how long. Largely it’s a response to parasite stress. So this seems to be the biggest predictor of national differences in consanguinity, is parasite stress. And the reason for this is probably because, when you have high levels of inbreeding, you can consolidate local coadaptations to diseases. So, in other words, you don’t lose those mhc complexes that you’ve evolved in the course of sort of entering into these coevolutionary arms races with local, local parasites, civilizations to create some kind, in a very r selected society, it creates some kind of trust and cooperation. It also means that even nugatory, nugatory expenditures of community effort can translate into relatively big payoffs when they kin selected. The inclusive fitness benefits are so high due to the high levels of genetic similarity. See, there’s lots of reasons why council marriages is favored, but the main reason, based on our analysis, seems to be that, distally speaking, so way back in evolutionary history, it was a very good way of preserving local adaptations against…</p>

<p>I would really like to meet a third cousin of my own age because, they say that that’s, that’s the thing you should be up to, if at least if you’re a k strategist, that’s what you should be optimally attracted to, a third cousin.</p>

<p>Well, it’s not a case being optimally attracted. It’s an old paper based on genealogical data from iceland, which was published the successful marriages, or whatever it was, it was most fertility. Because what seemed to happen was, below the level of first cousin, sorry, third cousin, you had mild inbreeding depression, which got more and more severe, obviously, as you go to incest. And beyond that, you get mild out breeding depression. So it seems that third cousins are the optimum.</p>
:ET