I"<p>The catholic church infiltrated by spitefull mutants.</p>

<p>Any such organization will be infiltrated by spiteful mutants, otherwise they wouldn’t be spiteful. By definition, they have to be attracted to organs of power, or come from organs of power.</p>

<p>It’s not even a case of being attracted to organs of power be completely randomly distributed with respect to cultural structures. It’s just they are going to have a more negative effect on more fragile and complex cultural structures. As fightful mutant is not going to have any kind of an effect unless they’re actually in a position of leadership within a powerful and complicated and multifaceted organization. It won’t be spiteful.</p>

<p>So it’s like with with Weber’s concept of the charismatic. You’re only the charismatic in relation to a group. By definition, in order to be a charismatic, you must have a following or you’re not charismatic. You must have a group which you damage, or you’re not actually spiteful, you’re just a mutant</p>

<p>One of the reasons why these maladaptive ideas might often come from the sort of middle class would be because of the high heritability of social class across time, meaning that it is possible that the middle classes or the upper classes, have been subject to darwinian selection for less time, so so they would the spiteful mutants were more likely to come from there. Which seems to fit if you look at who these spiral movements are, and they’re often from that kind of background. One thing I was wondering about is, is that the working class under darwinian conditions, so that they are less intelligent, which is why they’re working class. They can’t produce good environments for their children, and they therefore have high child mortality. The industrial revolution, stops the situation where poor people automatically have child mortality, high child mortality. But would it be possible that the working class would be more mutated as well, because they were the ones being killed off by child mortality. And thus people in the middle would be the least mutated.</p>

<p>Don’t forget, you have all this mobility of the lower into the upper now due to the fact that you have dysgenic selection um operating at the level of the upper strata, which means it’s not replacing itself, so that that bar is getting lower and lower. More and more of the lower sort of strata of society is assuming the positions that were previously occupied by extinct lineages. So what you have is you actually have upward social mobility in modern populations, which is not due to any kind of real upward mobility. It’s due to the bar simply getting lower and lower. So in that regard, yeah, you’d probably find more mutations concentrated around those individuals who were formerly a lower strata moving up into the upper strata by virtue of the positioning of this bar, essentially.</p>

<p>Then you’d expect the working class and the upper class to be mutated for different reasons, and then you’d expect the middle class, like the lower middle class, really, to be the least mutated. I think at the end of the day, it’s an empirical question. Obviously wrote a very good book called our crumbling genome, in which he argues that, uh, we basically have to, we can, we can use, he says it’s okay to use sort of phenotypic proxies, like we do with lefthandedness, for example, to track changes in mutation mode, but we need very fine resolution mapping. We need to be able to really do deep sequencing of the genome to pick up the sort of variants that have been accumulating since industrialization in the west.</p>

<p>And this is an open question. It’s something that we could probably address in the future, in a not too distant future. But it’s just that it’s an open question. At the moment. I don’t know where all the mutations are going to be concentrated in in our society. It might be the middle. You might be right about that. They have to be upper middle, because they wouldn’t have power. And they have to have power to be spiteful.</p>
:ET