I"a	<p>And that is, does consciousness allow nonevolutionary behavior?</p>

<p>Well, um, I suppose the question could be, it could be this. And that is, does being conscious, in other words, having a certain degree of, sort of awareness of what one does and a certain, presumably a certain degree of control over, over everyone’s faculty, so sort of, you know, free will concept broadly construed. Do these elements, which are, you know, which which, broadly speaking, sort of gel into consciousness, allow people to make behaviors, or engage in behaviors, which are evolutionarily suboptimal?</p>

<p>And the answer is it’s difficult to pin the blame on consciousness per se, because consciousness is an extremely difficult thing to define. If we could define consciousness properly, we would have a major revolution in in psychology. And if you look at most of the most of the claims made about the nature of consciousness, there there’s a real consensus among consciousness researchers. And that’s partly, by the way, because we don’t have the equivalent of a Francis Gauldon type working in that field, sort of making the necessary conceptual and integrated leaps to bring us towards closer understanding of this concept. So, so you have a lot of people asking sort of strange questions about heart problems and things, and  it’s kind of a field that’s going nowhere.</p>

<p>But what I would say is, is that there are certain things which might be allied with consciousness, or may or may feed into consciousness. Because Brian Baldwell has this theory that there might be individual differences in consciousness, and this might relate to variation personality, intelligence and things like that. So things which may, which may be associated with variations in levels of consciousness, perhaps such as iq, which we do know causes people to engage in, evolutionarily, some optimal behaviors, such as, in case of high iq, people choosing not to have children when they can, you know, when they’re equipped to do so, psychologically, physical, physiologically and and, you know, would otherwise be inclined to do so under a different regime of selection. So yes, it’s perfectly possible, uh, for for maybe some corollaries of individual differences in consciousness to cause these sorts of behaviors. But until we can measure consciousness properly, or even define it properly …</p>
:ET