I"L<p>Can concussions cause low iq, or is it reverse causation?</p>

<p>That’s a very good question beyond, yes, I like that. Yes, they can. Concussions can actually cause low iq. And, uh, but we know, but the there’s a specific kind of concussive injury called a traumatic brain injury, right? And this is where your your your your concussed to such an extent that it actually damages your brain in some way. Here’s the interesting thing about it is, insofar as the concussion reduces your iq, or rather, the traumatic brain injury from a congestion reduces your iq, it does not reduce the iq at the level of G. It does serve the level of specialized abilities, which is, which is very interesting. So it kind of gives you a reverse flint effect. You know, the flynn effect is a gain in specialized abilities. Getting your head knocked really hard will reduce those specialized abilities essentially.</p>

<p>Yeah, it’s an issue of, yeah, it’s because, of course, it’s, the g is highly genetic, so it’s going to be on the the I when I did my book, I seem to recall, as as regarding reverse causation, there was something about injuries. Let me have a look. Accident proneness. Uh, and it was associated with low conscientiousness. No statistical difference. A person’s accident prone. There’s lots of some studies. Metro analysis of 79 studies. Others argue that these studies concern industrial tasks. Pictures clear with car driving, personality is free of harm and people are behind the wheel of a car. Genetic 91 found that accident produced among car drivers was predicted by low intelligence, highly autism, high extroversion and psychoticism. A number of studies know that the accident thrown among drivers are high in extremes of extroversion, and higher in neurosis. And so there you are. So there is, there is a causation aspect to it as well, in the sense that stupid people are more likely to get an accident and they’re more likely to get concussions. So that there’s, it’s working. It. Now, presumably that would be on G. So by either they would have lower g and they would get into stupid accidents, and then it would damage them, not on g, but on specialized abilities. But either way it would be right?</p>

<p>We see the same pattern with fetal alcoholism and fetal cocaine exposure, and also with lead exposure. Because what you see if you, if you look at the, if you look at the degree to which gene moderates the differences between normal, healthy people and people who’ve been damaged in some way by neurotoxins or by, you know, having been exposed to alcohol as a fetus, or having been knocked on the head really hard, what you see is, is there’s like a neutral effect of G. So so g doesn’t seem to be positively or negatively moderating the group difference between those two groups, the clinical group and the healthy group. So what this means is exactly as you said, there is to some extent, people who have low g to begin with are more likely to get involved in, you know, in a situation where they’re going to be exposed to lead through, you know, occupational hazards or living in a sort of bad area, or they’re going to be more likely to drink while they’re pregnant, or they’re going to be more likely to be iodine deficient, or they’re going to be more likely to to get into injuries um, of a sort that lead to traumatic head injury, like riding a motorbike without a helmet, for example. So yes, in that sense, the group difference is going to be partly on G. But insofar as the actual insult to the brain has an additive effect, in other words, it it, you know, it adds to the Iq discrepancy, or that already disfavors the clinical group that discrepancies is not on G. So at the end of the day, it cancels out.</p>

<p>The same thing could be said about personality and gfp. So people who have outlier, high extroversion, it seems, and also low impulse control, are more likely to get into serious car accidents, and then they’re going to get brain damage, and it will have some sort of effect on personality, potentially as well. You’re thinking, like an phineus gage type thing, like a phineas gage type thing. Yeah, yeah. What do you think? I mean, it’s possible, because phineas gage had, uh, damage to his frontal lobes. There’s some somewhat mythical stories about the extent of his sociopathy, but he does seem to have been a bit odd.</p>
:ET