I"8<p>So he’s saying, is the replication crisis could it in in part be a consequence of declining intelligence?</p>

<p>Well, in so as the sort of surfeit of scientists, or people calling themselves scientists these days in our universities, could in part be an artifact, or a function of upward social mobility? And by upward social mobility, people from sort of low status backgrounds getting into higher status positions, rather than the other way around, which was the norm for most of history. People from high status backgrounds tended to produce offspring who, when they were younger sons of younger sons, etc, tended to be downwardly socially mobile.</p>

<p>So you have a situation which a lot of really, really good scientists perhaps didn’t procreate. And as a consequence, those top positions got occupied by a more mediocre, sort of underclass. And everyone leveled up as a consequence. And because the pyramid widens as you go further down, that bar gets lowered, essentially, so that new cut of the pyramid can consider itself the elite, simply because the bar has gotten lowered, and because there’s more of the pyramid widens essentially as you go down towards the base. As the bar lowers, you get more and more people sort of claiming, you know, that they’ve won the social lottery essentially, by getting into these elite positions.</p>

<p>So very large numbers of people going around calling themselves scientists, not really valuing the sort of things that scientists hold sacred. Not really sacralizing truth, not really sacralizing integrity or honesty. People who are willing to treat science as a sort of politically expedient thing, or as a mechanism for generating a career. Science was never really considered a career path historically. It was always considered a kind of hobby, that very, very talented people participated in through small, what were known as invisible colleges. These are small, loose knit confederacies of allied individuals, essentially who saw eye to eye on certain issues and would get together.</p>

<p>You’ve also got the massive expansion of universities, anyway. Well, why do you think? Yes, that’s to accommodate this increasing, sort of, increasingly large numbers of upwardly mobile individuals, isn’t it? It’s two separate things. You’ve got upward social mobility, anyway. So so that’s making scientists stupid at all, else being equal. But then you’ve got the change of this massive expansion in people, as it were, being paid to do science, is the second thing. So, that makes it even worse. And then thirdly, we’d like our scientists to have religious belief.</p>

<p>Well, this was Murray’s point he made in his book, human accomplishment, which he pointed out that one of the things that may have motivated genius was this idea of transcendental values, ie, you engage in scientific research as a essentially a de facto form of revolution. That’s what it is. It’s what scientific research is it’s going out and revealing something about God’s creation through the process of scientific inquiry, and learning something about the nature of the creation which was not previously known. So insofar as it’s the creation and it’s sacred, to tell lies about what you find is unthinkable. And the punishments for lying um were very, very severe back then. Total ostracism, loss of any status, loss of any reputation, completely gone. There’s no tolerance for it, not even to a slight degree. God didn’t tolerate it either. And so it was a heresy that. That’s how these people articulated it. They saw it as a heresy, essentially right.</p>
:ET