I"y<p>Why did iq go up under communism? Why are women in Eastern Europe and Russia more attractive than in western countries? Does more select for attractiveness in women?</p>

<p>There’s no evidence that really did go up under communism. Um, as a matter of fact, we have lots of evidence that probably went down under communism. There’s a paper published in the mankind quarterly in 1991 by John Glad in which he had recently deceased John Blair, in which he attempted to calculate the costs of communism in terms of Iq. Using a sort of a demographic model that he developed, he estimated that communism reduced the iq of the population of Russia, Soviet Russia, by around three points over, say, 50 years. And he argued that the argument was on the basis the communists were disproportionately, you’re disproportionately likely to be killed if you were sort of highly intelligent, highly controversial, a risk taker. Perhaps someone with a very high status who was a potential threat to the political elites, like for example stalin murdered Zinoviev and Kaminev Trotsky and all these rivals around him who were very high iq and ended up purging most of the pollock bureau, essentially. So, yeah, the net effect of that would probably have been a reduction in Iq.</p>

<p>Also in China, it seems to be, based on the data that we have, that there’s been persistent dysgenic fertility in China, really starting the 1950s, actually getting a little worse during the one child policy era. So it seems that chinese sort of meddling in the reproduction of the population may have exacerbated dysgenics, possibly because the people who who adhered to the one child policy to the greatest extent were people who, basically had means, middleclass people. And the exceptions, or in instances where it was poorly enforced, would have been in rural communities, where, where you might. They might have turned a blind eye to people having more than one child because they needed the labor. So in other words, it was sort of an enforced dysgenics this could explain why the trend got a little worse.</p>

<p>Another thing is Cambodia. In Cambodia, pol pot actually targeted for extermination virtually everyone with any kind of profession, who lived in the city, who read, who had glasses, who had any marker that could be correlated with intelligence, either socially or physiologically. And he ended up wiping out a third of his population. And that third of this population likely contained all of the smarties. And it’s interesting. We have a little bit of data on students from Cambodia in the 1980s who went over to Europe to study along with students from Laos and Vietnam. And those students from Cambodia have Iqs in the 70s, compared to the students from Laos and Vietnam, were matched, ostensibly in terms of levels of proficiency, who had iqs of 90. So it could be that in just four years, the iq in Cambodia was reduced by we’re talking 80, 90 points. We’re talking 20 or 30 iq points in just four years due to this super disgenic communist policy.</p>

<p>The only instance of a country where communism may actually have boosted iq. And this is based on the work of voldemort vice. And the only copy of this is in, actually in a book. It’s never been translated into English, a hook he, published in Germany. But vice actually found evidence that women in gdr, the german deutsche Republic, the German Democratic Republic, he found evidence that women with high levels of educational attainment have more offspring than women with low levels of educational attendance. And there was something peculiar going on in East Germany, and that is that the east germans kind of practiced, ukraine, may have been practicing a kind of cryptic eugenics, because they were very nurturing with talent. They were very aggressive in terms of identifying talent and streaming it. And what they actually did was they provided massive amounts of rewards for people with very high talent. They gave them bigger apartments. They ensured that they got better quality cars. They ensured that they got better quality food. They the kids got better education. The kids would be hot housed and put through these specialized technical courses and things so that they could, you know, bring out the best in the kids. And this could be seen as a kind of an incentive mechanism to people who’ve already produced, say, one very talented kid, producing another talented kid, if the state is basically regimenting its entire, or arraying its entire apparatus to benefit you personally on the basis of you your kids have talent. And he notes this also among mathematical talent in Eastern Germany, the kids were treated very well, the families were treated very well, and the families were quite big as well, among the these mathematically talented individuals.</p>

<p>So East Germany may be the one and only exception to this. In virtually every other instances, all the data that we have suggests that dysgenics was an everpresent factor, and was probably made considerably worse by communism.</p>

<p>They’ve had their revenge though, the east germans by producing Angela Merkel, who hasn’t exactly done positive things to the iq of Europe. No.</p>
:ET