I"ù*<p>I do not know the correlation between melanin and reaction times. I know of no literature on this. I do know. But in terms of the group difference, between the various group differences involving ethnic groups, you get a, a tendency for individuals of more african ancestry to exhibit slower reaction times on, more complex measures of reaction time. Although this is a really rather poorly studied area, and the group differences are very small compared to, say, you know, performance on psychometric tests. So there are these very small group differences in the means, which seem to, which seem to trend in roughly the same direction as performance on on fullscale, cognitive ability batteries. And there is a paper by Charlie Reeve, published some years ago, where they look at the performance on choice reaction time and use that to partially mediate the group difference in psychometric, performance on more sort of standard pencil and paper tests. So so basically, insofar as that could be a proxy for the quantity of dermal melanin or subdermal melanin. I‚Äôd say that the more melanin may be. The of a reaction time something like that. Establishing the correlation with with something like skin reflectance would be what‚Äôs needed as a pure, you know, continuous variable. Um, I don‚Äôt know of any studies that have done that.</p>

<p>I would think that there are other issues. So melanin, as I understand it, is associated with testosterone level. So people that have higher melanin tend to have higher levels of testosterone. And so within race, you would expect the and there‚Äôs good evidence that. People that have darker skin within race tend to be more aggressive and have a faster life history strategy. There‚Äôs certainly evidence for that. And so that would that, but that would, that would then reflect in lower levels of education, lower socioeconomic status, this sort of thing. But that doesn‚Äôt, at the individual that doesn‚Äôt go necessarily with intelligence. So I‚Äôm certainly not with reaction times.</p>

<p>So at the level of the group, then it would make sense because, you know, because reaction times are a reflection of basically a high functioning nervous system, high functioning nervous system, complex brain, whatever. And in an ecology which is co which is harsh and stable, then that‚Äôs going to be, of course, winter‚Äôs theory and, nuanced versions of Cold Winters theory, should I say, would would predict that, you‚Äôd have that, you‚Äôd have fast reaction times, but you wouldn‚Äôt have a high level of melanin, because you wouldn‚Äôt need to protect yourself from the sun. And in fact, you need to do the opposite. You need, you‚Äôd need to be able to absorb vitamin d from the sun, so you‚Äôd have lighter skin, this sort of thing.</p>

<p>But that‚Äôs slightly too, clearcut really. Because there‚Äôs all kinds of variations there. I mean, if you look at the the the bushman, for example, and they have considerably lighter skin than the subsaharan africans,and they have so so that very hot place is, of course, unstable places. So it‚Äôs not that there‚Äôs more to it than just there‚Äôs all kinds of complex issues that would have to be controlled for.</p>

<p>I think there‚Äôs another thing as well. I‚Äôd like to point out in that is that basically, Jensen had a sort of little known hypothesis that he published in around 2006, that this was in response to templar and Arikawa‚Äôs paper on national skin reflectance and national cognitive ability. Very strong association between those two variables, at least at the ecological level. And Jensen sort of speculated that there might be plyotropic relationships between variants, for melon, in granule size number and measures of sort of nervous system functioning, as reflected more broadly at general cognitive ability. And this hypothesis seems to have been falsified of late, in the sense that people have now conducted analyses where they have specifically looked at the role of skin reflectance, net of factors like biogeographical, ancestry and other things, to see if it predicts any of the variants in in cognitive attainment, independently of these, considered to be more, causally salient factors, related more to the sort of historical ecological context in which these group differences might have arisen in phylogenetic time. And, the result of this seems to be that, no, this single indicator on its own, net of these other, more, shall we say, phylogenetically and onto genetically salient factors, does not seem to predict any of the variance in general cognitive ability. That is to say, so that would seem to be, that would seem to run contrary to Jensen‚Äôs 2006 prediction that there might be these sort of cryptic, plyotropic relationships among these, these, i‚Äôve seen variants.</p>

<p>You said that people that have aryan features, blonde hair and pale skin and blue eyes, have slightly higher iq. Than people that have more kind of alpine features.</p>

<p>Well, I wouldn‚Äôt use the term aryan. I don‚Äôt know what you mean. I think what you mean are Indoeuropean features. And the Indoeuropean Group um is a sort of very poorly defined group, most of, most of whom originated from the sort of border between India and Europe, some whatever it was, several thousand years ago. And the argument has been put forward that they bought with them paler skin, blue eyes, blonder hair, etc. This is heavily debated. There‚Äôs no clear consensus on this, partly because it‚Äôs actually very difficult to track the introduction of these variants. But yes, they might have originated in this area. And it might be that these variants are one possibilities. They are, or at least were at one point in time, in linkage with cognitive ability variants.</p>

<p>Who have proposed this? Do you remember? Well, a person who did the work on this, who looked at sort of region, region level analysis of frequency of eye color, hair color, etc, was Donald templar. Funnily enough, back in in his days, when he was alive. He‚Äôs not alive anymore. That‚Äôs why he doesn‚Äôt do any more research. But he looked at it Italy. I believe he had like a feature map of Italy frequencies of these various phenotypes. And as a result, he was able to get these ecological correlations. Now, I know that there‚Äôs one other data set, which is an individual level data set, and I can‚Äôt remember who has it. I don‚Äôt think results have been published. But this individual level data set finds very, very weak correlations between blue eyes, sort of blonder colored hair and iq.</p>

<p>And there are a couple of reasons why these correlations may exist. One is that these uh are, in fact very, very poor proxies for ancestry. So what what happens is, because blue eyes are not randomly distributed among the world‚Äôs people. And actually, most of the world‚Äôs people have brown eyes, not blue eyes. Blue eyes are sort of very distinctly european Trait. Therefore, you you‚Äôre picking up there on a very, very crude proxy for sort of global ancestry.</p>

<p>What‚Äôs more is you are also looking, possibly, at traits which are reflective of neotony. So all babies are more or less born with blue eyes. So this is the thing, if you can retain these juvenile features into adulthood, right? It suggests that you have a very slow pace of</p>

<p>I mean, is it just all white babies, or european babies that are born with blue eyes? I believe so, yes, it is. It‚Äôs european babies. I‚Äôm not so sure about Noneuropeans.</p>

<p>North east asians are mainly known for this neotony, in terms of facial shape and whatever, but they don‚Äôt have blue eyes.</p>

<p>Well, neotony can be a multidimensional construct, and it could be that selection is acting on different variants, components of neoteny, at two different degrees, in different populations, based on what is most conducive to fitness given sort of relevant patterns of social selection. So in the case of westerners, my theory has always been the reason, one of the major drivers of these correlations is probably neotony. What you‚Äôre looking at there is a general global good genes factor, essentially. And you‚Äôre looking there at uh, at a strong selection pressure favoring those who can retain those youth, youthful characteristics. And that would be consistent with western westerners having been under, and still being under, a regime of strong k election. Because the correlation between individual differences in life history speed, measured using, you know, psychometric measures, and fertility is positive.</p>

<p>You found the despite what you know, intelligence, people with low iq having more children. It‚Äôs also people who are more k who are having more children. But being blueeyed is a recessive trait? Are people with blue eyes more fertile?</p>

<p>Well, it can be a dominance variance, right? So there are two types of heritability. There‚Äôs heritability, which takes the form of continuous variation among individuals. So what‚Äôs called polygenic heritability, or additive heritability. So this is you get a small boost in the level of a trait as a function of each new variant you get added to the genome, or perhaps deleted from the genome in some cases, that‚Äôll lower the level of the trait. So literally, how many copies of this particular allele you have in this stretch of dna, sort of, how long is the poly gene. How many, how many of these variants do you have in the genome, will give you this continuous variation.</p>

<p>And there‚Äôs discontinuous variation. But it‚Äôs also hereditary variation, rather heritable variation, rather than nonheritable variation. And that can include traits which don‚Äôt breed true. So this would be traits where you get mendelian patterns of trait transmission across generations. That is to say, you end up with, you know, a segregation of traits on either a monohybrid or dihybrid basis. So the offspring segregate. You get, say, three of the offspring have this, you know, some recessive condition, and this one offspring has this double dominance. So therefore they have the disease, or they have the trait, or what have you.</p>

<p>And yeah, eye color seems to, more or less, there might be some exceptions to this, but more or less, eye color seems to be one of these traits that transmits through through Mono hybrid inheritance in the sense that you get that, you know, that randomization of the Punnett square among the offspring. But such trait variants, although it doesn‚Äôt necessarily breed true, can still, in fact, breed. In other words, you can have selection pressures that actually favor a high frequency of maintenance of these recessive alleles within, is there a data set where we could see if people that have blue eyes are more likely to have more children? Well, yes, I have such a data set um and I can investigate this question.</p>
:ET