I"<p>To avoid atheism, should we be christian, or revert to our original european spirituality, celtic, norse, grecoroman, etc, paganism?</p>

<p>I think we could do both. I mean, there’s no reason to have this, this, this divide between. As Alan De Benoit argues in his book on being a pagan, you can argue that some forms of christianity are more polytheistic, more pagan, if you like, than others, because they have multiple objects of worship. And they don’t see the world as much as an evil place. And there’s various markers he posits as being distinction between monotheistic and and polytheistic, or pagan and Christian. All of our christianities are a syncretism of of the two. And and some are very much paganesque, such as orthodoxy, and others are more in the monotheistic strict direction, which what reformation was about, such as protestantism and calvinism particularly. So I don’t think that this needs to be a a distinction like that between the two. And I think it’s a bit of a problem among people on the right, because there is this divide among those who are christian and those like Jonathan Bowden or whatever, who regard themselves as pagan, and they don’t like each other. It’s almost like heresy within the movement.</p>

<p>Well, I think we’ve coevolved with christianity, so christianity has, has been part of our cultural coevolutionary matrix, essentially. So we’re more adapted to christianity than we are to anything else. And i, I think the sort of Pagans are lap artists who wanted a better term. It’s fundamentally unserious. I think that, uh, I mean, my own preference is religious. In terms of religion, would be the sort of catholicism, because I come from an old catholic, scotsirish family with very deep roots in that Diaspora.</p>

<p>So the catholicism itself, sorry to interrupt, catholicism itself has become kind of cucked. And is led by a person who’s leftwing. It is, and, and that is, and that is obviously a major, I think, obstacle to belief um and conversion for a good number of right-thinking people. But Pope’s come and go. We had this Pope that was quite a reasonable chap, and then he was kind of, he was a, very much a conservative pope, and then he was deposed.</p>

<p>Yes, it was very mysterious. I’ve always wondered what really happened to Pope Benedict, because that was only ever had one instance in the history of the catholic church of a Pope voluntarily relinquishing the papacy and stepping down. I i’ve never what an earth happened? What caused that to happen? Oh, we don’t know. I mean, there is some thought that Pope John Paul the first was killed, was assassinated.</p>

<p>Yes, i’ve heard that rumor. I’m not conspiratorially minded, but this, all my hackles go up when I think about what happened to Pope Benedict. Because something, something odd happened there. And I feel like he was dying or something. Mean, hope Pope John Paul II was went up onto the balcony of some peters when he was literally dying, and made an attempt to wave. And, like, couldn’t master the physical energy to do so. It was very poignant, sad image, do you remember? Terrible, he was desperate to to bless the people. And he was this look of of utter despair on his face when he just couldn’t do it. And that’s what a Pope traditionally would have been like. You you hang on to the bitter end, and because that’s what you’re supposed to do. So I’m sure it’ll come out in the end, but I’m sure it was some sort of coup, some sort of palace coup to remove him.</p>

<p>There have been factions within the catholic church. Really start it really with Vatican II. You know, is these very powerful, what you could call globalist or protoglobalist type elements within the church. And, it seems that they, their power has been waxing and waning. But they were definitely on a hiding to nothing when Pope Benedict I remember when Pope Benedict was what was it was announced, when they were maybe the pontifical academy or whatever, it was announced that he was to be the next pope. I i remember the the, the screeching, incoherent rage coming from a left on campus when I was an undergraduate, and and how everyone was out sort of protesting it and complaining and everything. And I thought, well, God, yes, something, something’s going right here. Yeah. And then it all completely reverses with Pope Francis.</p>

<p>I once spent a few days with a friend of mine was trained to be a catholic priest, and he invited me to come and stay at this seminary, which was quite fun actually, because they, they’re kind of, like, very emotionally immature men. So so it’s kind of, it’s kind of like, well, hey lads, let’s go out and get drunk. Let’s go to goddamning. The place in question was near godelding. Let’s go to Goldberg and get some gin, and let’s get really drunk. That’s what they do. Oh, I i was so hungover at whatever you call it, that you have in the morning, matanz or whatever. I was so hungover. That’s how they talk. They look like students. They were like older people, but they talked like, I’m so hungover, mate. Oh, I could barely sing the latin. This, that the other. It was, it was like that exactly. It was hilarious. But they were all gays bicycles, as far as I could work out. I think there must have been, there must have been some sort of, he was antigay and he was conservative. And a lot of catholic priests are gay. And there’s the whole gay, as I understand it, a whole gay subculture among catholic priests. Even more so than among male lutheran priests here in finland, a lot of whom are fantastically gay.</p>
:ET