I"M<p>And he says, um, with regards to rising autism levels, could that lead to rightwing values increasing?</p>

<p>Well, autism or autistic like personality, because really what you’re dealing with is a sort of a complex of disorders, which can broadly be united within the rubric of what could loosely be termed a social learning disorder. But the sort of autism that generally gets, uh, that generally becomes clinically significant, where people present with certain sort of stereotype behaviors, rocking type behavior, back and forth, automatic behavior, that sort of thing. That sort of autism does seem to be associated with intolerance of ambiguity, in terms of being very binary in one’s thinking, tending to think about things in black and white categories. And that sort of thinking tends to be more prevalent among people on the extremes of both the left and the right. So it’s an interesting finding, actually, that engineers who are a demographic who are going to have more than their fair share of autists. And the demographic is basically is prone to producing terrorists. They found that many of these terrorists actually actually had backgrounds in engineering, which is quite interesting. So there is some kind of weird connection there. And that would also go in line with the idea that people who are also optimizing more interested in systems are more interested in in sort of extreme and perhaps inflexible modes of political orientation. Now, that’s not to say that all engineers, my grandfather was a nuclear engineer, and he certainly wasn’t a terrorist. He was an old school socialist whose father had marched with Kia hardy down in the pits in the 1920s. But, no, the the reality is that if you have this world view that is more systemizing, it might make you more sensitive to ideologies which are more rigid and tend to see things in more stark relief, essentially. So this means that you could, in fact, a higher frequency of autists among both the extreme left and the extreme right. And I would actually expect that to be the case. So what is it that causes one to be left and one to be right? Well, that would you have to ask Jonathan Height about that, because heights model is that there are these differences in the moral foundations. And he argues there are five of them. There’s now six, but let’s just focus on his big five. Okay? There’s fairness and harm avoidance, which form a super cluster that he refers to as individualism. And then there are three others. There’s authority, purity and loyalty. And those three form a sort of super cluster, which is associated with binding. What what height argues is that basically there is a a tendency for people on the right to value these three p these three binding moral foundations, the authority, purity, loyalty. And people on the left tend not to value those things. They tend to value the more individualizing or individuating values, the sort of fairness, harm avoidance type values. And maybe it’s the dis because these are heritable and they probably relate not trivially to some source of real behavioral variation among individuals. You probably find that, uh, these values are what are fundamentally tilt the difference between individuals in terms of which of these clusters they are higher on. Because there’s probably a tradeoff. I think they do negatively correlate with each other when you isolate them as group factors and you take the correlation. And it is negative in sign but yes, people high on one tend to be low on the other, and that’s probably where your left right axis comes from. So people who may be extremely tilted towards finding energy binding values, or extremely tilted, on the other hand, towards individualistic type values, those are going to be your political extremists. And those are going to be where maybe having an autistic like personality may make you…</p>
:ET