I"<p>Mulatto between average white and black iq. Any research on analogous studies in quadroon and further divisions.</p>

<p>Actually have been a couple of these, these admixture analyses. And this idea of using admixture, that is the proportion of, uh, say you take someone who’s, you know, white, you take a bunch of individuals and you rank them based on white, most white to most black, right? In terms of percentages of ancestry components as measured using what called Bio geographic ancestry markers. You can actually show that the proportion of admixture, so how, say, how black a white person is, um, predicts their iq. It does so independently of the participants selfidentified race and ethnicity. Which is really fascinating, because a lot of people say, well, the reason that mixture would be expected to predict differences in Iq is because the admixture is just a proxy for a socially constructed label of race, right? And as a result, it’s that assigning people to racial categories that is actually an exercise of white privilege and white power, and that Dis powers minorities, and as a result, they’re going to have lower Iq tests. Because that’s just going to reflect white privilege, right? It’s going to reflect another dimension of white power and discrimination. Essentially. It’s going to reflect, in some, you know, Substandard Iq performance or what have you. So the way we we tested the two hypotheses, a sort of white privilege hypothesis and the, you know, the admix, local admixture hypothesis, is we we actually controlled in the regression or selfidentified race, ethnicity, and showed that, independently of selfidentified race and ethnicity, um admixture proportion significantly predicted differences in iq among individuals. But when you did the regression the other way around, and you controlled sire, sire for uh, for the admixture gradient, it predicted nothing. So the socially constructed component of race, which treated as an independent, independent predictor, predicts absolutely nothing. That</p>
:ET