I"T<p>Are there many others in academia as correct or less wrong, or less biased or more truthoriented as you guys? I the term I like to use is intrinsically honest. The only other people I can think of are mlk and guern. I see many people online who are undeniably higher iq than me, yet I’m often disappointed that they hold outrageously silly beliefs due to their ideological motivations or internal biases. Can you also explain the psychometric prerequisites, and if you think it is more so heritable or environmentally instilled? In other words, where we are the sort of intrinsic honesty? Is it more environmental, or is it more genetically determined? And he said, here, I can think of disagreeably disagreeable, low empathy, more male brains, that’s, you know, people being oriented, rather than peopleoriented. Poor social skills, prone to social, social isolation type traits. I think that this is a quality that’s just as important as iq for success in society, and there’s no point in increasing iq if you get a lot of very smart, very wrong people running around?</p>

<p>Well, yes, i’d say you’re right. This is one of the reasons I’m sort of very weary of eugenics, where it’s sort of single trait type eugenics of people saying, oh, we should just use embryo selection to raise Iq. Well, at what cost? Because you can have a lot of very smart people who are not very creative. You can have a lot of very smart people who are not very risktaking. You can have smart people who are not very, you know, very conformist, don’t really want to rock the boat. And in fact, the vast majority of very smart people achieve absolutely nothing because they are very conformist and they are very conventional.</p>

<p>And you only have to look at these big data sets like simpy. What amazes me about simpy more than anything else is that the sample is so overwhelmingly dull. These are the people who’ve gotten the top, top, top, top, top percentile of the top exams for everything in the top Iq tests and and they’ve been followed up longitudinally. It’s a big, longitudinal crosssectional study, and they’re extremely dull. They just do the sort of things you’d expect very, very, very bright people to do. But there were no seriously, outbanding members of that cohort.</p>

<p>Hermann had the same problem with his terminites. He attempted to collect huge samples of people by accused of 140 and he found that those people who followed them up for 80 years, or he didn’t, but his intellectual descendants did. They followed it up through until the 90s, actually. And the herminites were just extremely dull. They just did the sort of things that higher q people would be expected to do. As a matter of fact, two Nobel Prize winners, Luis Alvarez and uh William shock, who were both excluded from the cervix. They didn’t quite make the Iq threshold. So the two most interesting people who could have entered, the example, the cohort, didn’t actually make it. It was screened out. So it being very high iq, for the most part, will just make you very good at doing something. It won’t make you understanding right?</p>
:ET