I"(<p>Can you discuss the dynamics of intelligent groups developing technology to offset the fertility disadvantage, and what happens when that technology is transferred to less intelligent, but more fertile population groups?</p>

<p>Contraception would be one such technology, wouldn’t it? Yes. Literacy, especially for women, would be another such technology. What these things tend to do is accentuate the dysgenic effects in the countries which adopt them. So you start off with this like heavy dose of dysgenics. And you see this in places like, well, Africa. If you look at the correlations between Iq and fertility, or educational attainment and fertility, they’re much steeper. They’re much more negative than they are in the west. And part of the reason for this is because contraception and things which handicap fertility through causing one to trade time against opportunity for fertility, such as exposure to education, especially in women, they affect the gradients of fertility more acutely. And then you have this diffusion of these social technologies and other technologies through across social status gradients. It kind of equalizes things a little more, but it never quite gets rid of this genic effect. It just, it just goes from being about negative point three, let’s say, to being about negative point one. It never goes to zero.</p>

<p>So can you explain to me again, why is the genetic effect higher in Africa? Because basically, people practicing birth control and sending their kids to school are the african Elite. Ie, ones would be high iq. So there’s an objective high iq, like a western high iq, which the very high. I see what you mean. Yeah. Because among African Americans, it’s more pronounced, isn’t it? It is hispanics, it’s the absolute worst in hispanics. And if you look at the countries from which a lot of most hispanics in America come, Ie, Mexico, Guatemala, you just see these dysgenic effects from Hell. We’re talking about correlations of negative bigger than negative point three.</p>

<p>The biggest why is it worse among the hispanics than the blacks? Is it because they’re just transitioned into dysgenics. And their elites are really, start, really using all of these these they’re doing everything they can to reduce their fertility and the lower status ones haven’t quite got there yet, so they’re in very high fertility. So the gradient is very steep, though. But if you look at a lot of these countries.</p>

<p>Would would it have been very steep in in Victoria and England then as well? Yes, absolutely. I was a chap called Varegard Scareback. And he basically documented historical, the historical fertility transition. So he looked at the, he looks at countries of different centuries in different years, works out when the proportion of surviving offspring was highest among upperclass people versus lowerclass people. Who looks at that sort of proportion difference, and then he compares that, uh, to people living in 14th century, people living today, and every century between. And you see in the west, it starts off as highly eugenic, essentially in the between the 14th and the early 19th century. And then it becomes very strongly dysgenic thereafter. But then it sort of levels off.</p>

<p>But also banning contraception, which doesn’t quite work, because there is this evidence that if you’re just at a certain level of wealth, then you just want to stop having children, as happened in the roman empire. You just don’t want to have them.</p>

<p>That’s right. It seems that really there’s only one thing that actually encourages people into pronatal behavior, and that’s religion. Uh. And you can see this with mormons, for example. They’re quite second. Even the very highly intelligent ones are quite I don’t believe they’re in eugenic fertility. A lot of people say, oh, mormons are eugenic fertility. There’s no real evidence for that. At best, they’re in some kind of like, stasis or nullgenic type thing, where it’s balanced completely. But what they don’t seem to have is pronounced dysgenics, compared to other populations for which we have comparable data, like in the Nlsy, for example. So it could be that religion is protected in their case, and it might be protected in the case of orthodox Jews as well. There’s some hints that the very smart ones actually have quite a few children, and that generally, the fertility rate is extremely high.</p>

<p>So it just, it’s probably all about religion. Just get religion. That’s how you have children, is you just get religion, basically. Or conservatism as well. The religion even more so, religion more fundamentally, because conservatism is still, you know, moral cert moral secular preferences. Religious stuff concerns your, you know, your sort of, greater sense of what you are in relation to the universe.</p>
:ET