I"<p>You talk about infusing intelligent people with some sort of religion. Could you elaborate a bit on this? I felt the section was too short.</p>

<p>What we point out is that historically, if you look at the great geniuses of the 19th century, one thing they seem to have in common is religious faith. A lot of these people were not atheists. They were not just religious. They believed that scientific research was a form of revelation. They called it neotomism. So the idea was that engaging in scientific work, discovering truth, etc, placing a premium on truth, this was all divinely ordained, essential and, this was kind of a motivating complex which kept them very truthful, kept them very dedicated, kept them aligned with with objective truth.</p>

<p>It also allowed them to move into areas which were socially taboo, fully cognizant of the fact that in so doing, they were basically, doing God’s work. This was an act of revelation, and if things had to change, if this finding challenged some preconceived notion, then so be it. To do otherwise, to suppress that was was bad, essentially. And this was a very powerful way of sort of protecting yourself against, heterodoxy, and also imbuing your life with a kind of existential purpose, a purposefulness, a drive towards scientific inquiry. So if you could put that back into modern scientists, and Charles Murray, who was the first proposed prosthesis in a book published in 2003 called, called a was the book called, one of the geniuses in it, human accomplishment.</p>

<p>He argues that one of the transitions that’s taken place is that these religious values have basically gone. They’ve evaporated, and they’ve been replaced with freudian, sort of freudo marxist, nihilist, relativist type value systems instead, which which basically do not place a premium on truth and see truth as being something that’s expedient and plays into sort of power dynamics and things on that. On that basis, Murray argues that this has handicapped the innovativeness of scientists, because they’re, they’re not able to pursue truth that they don’t existentially value it, they don’t place a premium on it. And if they substitute truth for politically expedient lies, there are many instances of scientific research where politically expedient lies dominate, then they do antitruth. They’re coming to conclusions which were in opposition to truth. And that handicapped science even further. And that was Murray’s theory.</p>

<p>So one possibility is, yes, by making scientists more religious, by making them more godly or spiritual, or what have you, maybe you could, you could actually make them better scientists in the same way that the victorians or the polymath geniuses, who were all deeply devoutly religious and thomastic.</p>

<p>I’ve been thinking about a lot recently, which is we’re talking about exclusion of us in in academia, and the data sets we can’t get ahold of. But of course, the Victorian University, until about 1871, when they tried to change it, didn’t really do that much in the way of research. Research was done by Gentleman scholars by interesting workingclass amateurs like Thomas Edward, the amadine shoemaker, by people with patrons, and by scholar rectors, or whatever. Paradigm, another example exactly. There wasn’t much in the way of actually actual people doing research at universities, because the university was just basically in the hands of the church. And it was, it was about educating vicars and lawyers, really, to a lesser extent, doctors. But it was really about promoting the ideology of society. And that was, that was basically religion and monarchy and so on.</p>

<p>And it was only in 1871 that they got rid of a system where you had, in order to be a fellow, in order to work at the university, you had your ordained to do that. And I look at the fact that you’d have prep school head masters that would do research, and public school head masters that would do research. There wasn’t anything going on at universities. And I think that in some respects, we’re going to move back to that. We are moving back to that, I hope. So it would certainly be a more convivial arrangement with certain areas of research that the university has become, to a certain extent, particularly in social science and humanities. A body whose purpose is to is to promote, well, it was christianity, and now it’s the religion of multiculturalism, which some things, mercier looked at this, that the leftwing ideologies have some significant points of commonality with christianity in a lot of ways, uh, the guilt and the shame and all this sort of thing, and the the the worshipping of the these those who are perceived as disempowered and all this. But the donation, the antinature and sort of system. So, victimhood, morality, the idea slave mobility.</p>
:ET