I"	<p>Historically, have high iq populations completely disappear during civilizational collapse, or do they migrate to other populations?</p>

<p>Interesting questions. So the idea is, intelligence is associated with migration. So do these, are these more intelligent subcomponents of the population, more likely to get the hell out into rising populations and thus kind of imbue themselves with them? Do you know that?</p>

<p>So well, one thing I can say is that, uh, intelligent, uh, you what you will get is a phenomenon that Charles Murray has discussed in the Bell curve and also in coming apart the state of White America, which is a book he published about five years ago, of populations with high iq becoming increasingly, self ghettoized. So they will increasingly come to nucleate within small, relatively more selfsufficient and autonomous communities, a bit like the process is called brazilianification. This is a term I believe that Murray actually uses. Now, the murray has argued, and he’s wrong about this, that this process will kind of offset dysgenics to a certain extent. Because, what you have is a possible increase in assortative mating, which would mean an increase in the variance of Iq within the population, which would offset the shift in the mean. But we actually now have molecular, or rather polygenic score data on whether or not assaultative mating levels have been increasing over time. And what we know is that people are assortatively pairing. In other words, they are choosing social and sexual partners more for more similar levels of educational Attainment, Iq, etcetera, today than they were historically, which is consistent with Murray’s thesis of the sort of agglutination or nucleation of people as well. But they’re not, they’re not producing offspring. They’re actually producing less offspring. So it looks like they’re pairing up. So they’re engaging in what’s called assortative sociality. They’re not engaging in assaultative mating. They’re pairing up, but they’re not producing offspring. So you see no secular trend over time in terms of genotypic similarity among spouses. Spouses don’t resemble each other to a greater extent over time. So this means that this process is not offsetting it’s not offsetting the dysgenic trend.</p>
:ET