I"%<p>We should prepare ourselves to live without electricity. Do you mean us literally, or our civilization’s descendants? Which of our inventions will survive into the coming dark age?</p>

<p>We’ve got to prepare ourselves for power cuts and stuff. And, um, we take all this, we take all this for granted, don’t we? Yeah. So we take, for example, if you take something like electricity, it’s actually incredibly complicated if you look at the issue of of what goes into generating electricity, because you have to have all that infrastructure present. You have to have the what do you call it? The generator present. You have to boost the have to have some facility for turning energy into heat, steam powering a turbine, driving a generator, etc. So you need power stations. You can’t rely on one thing. So you can’t just have coal. You have to have oil as well, gas, nuclear, maybe. Alternative energy, etc. If you look at a pie chart of where the electricity comes from, it doesn’t all come from one thing. It comes from a whole bunch of different things.</p>

<p>So essentially, the the issue of electricity generation is, it’s, very, very, very difficult to do, and it’s something I can’t see being sustained if Iq or general intelligence would have dropped by another, say, 10 points, it’s just not going to happen. So let’s say that’s a century, century hence, I can’t imagine we’d have viable, largescale alternating current electrical generation and distribution systems in place. I just can’t see that.</p>

<p>It would make many houses that are currently built, of course, useless, unlivable, because the house would have to default to, it would have to be, they’d have to default to conventional, highly distributed, less efficient modes of energy generation, which involve the direct conversion of wood into heat through fire?</p>

<p>But they don’t have when they, when they build houses now, there’s no fireplaces. So, yes, absolutely right. That is a problem. That is a major, major, major problem. New houses are useless. Lots and lots of flats are useless. Most student accommodation is useless. All this stuff is useless as a, as a consequence of the reliance on electricity. How to just be pulled down?</p>

<p>And, although, to be fair, that possibly the population would fall, so that that would be, that’s the problem in that sense. But, it’s an extremely dangerous situation. I mean, the collapse, presumably, though, if electricity started to go it would, I suspect, would I be right, that it would be quite a quick process, wouldn’t it would just be lots of things going wrong in a kind of cascade effect? Wouldn’t it be quite a sudden I think that the yes, you’d have, for example, a whole bunch of interlocking problems, for example, replacing the parts of the generators, it’s not possible to do without other very, very difficult to maintain bits of machinery.</p>

<p>I’ll give you an example. There’s a device called a winding engine, which is needed to draw metal into wire for the purposes of, uh, winding, producing windings inside of generators. My great great uncle built a company in Scotland, who’s industrialist by the name of William Ritchie. He founded a company called grant ritchie and company. He was for richie in g.r. and c. And one of the things he was a specialist in developing, is a very talented engineer. One of the things he was, he specialized in was the construction of winding engines. And these are devices that draw wire, essentially. And they’re very, very, very difficult things to build. And he was one of the first people to build them, actually, in this part of Scotland. And it was an engineering feat, massively difficult task to build these engines. And these winding engines were needed to build Dynamos, essentially, to produce the windings that went into the creation of the rotors within Dynamos. Without those, you can’t have Dynamos, therefore, you can’t have turbines that convert steam into electricity. So you can see how all the bits here are dependent on all these other bits and all these other smart people.</p>

<p>And so presumably the government wouldn’t be able to concede. It’d be very hard for a government that’s trying to be, sort of hold everybody together and be positive and all this, and blues guys thinking, to concede that we’re going backwards, and we can’t do things that we know that we used to be able to do. I suppose by then we would start to become religious, and there’d be this idea that these things were decadent, or something like that. What do you think?</p>

<p>Well, it might be that, the ability to maintain these infrastructures starts to scale down to a level at which the, the technology is manageable, but only on very, very highly local scales. So you might have very small numbers of people who have who represent little sort of closed, almost gated communities made up of very high Iq people. And those very high Iq people basically maintain the uh, infrastructure um to the best of their ability, which means that the good stuff is really restricted to them.</p>

<p>A good example of this might be places like paraguay. I had a friend of mine when I was an undergraduate who went off to work in paraguay before he went to Columbia University. And he was doing some work over there for somebody, was like, almost like an internship. And he described how if you went into these gated communities, you had all the mod cons, you had all of the supermarkets, all this american style, road infrastructure, energy generation, reliable power. But it was all on a very, very small scale. It’s almost like on a disneyland scale. And the whole of these gated communities were was sort of closed off, literally, with walls to keep people out. America Land inside these gated communities. But outside you just had jungles and crappy roads and bandits. And you had, in order to get from one of these communities to another, you had to sort of travel on the road. It was literally one road in the country was built by this, this dictator, who ruled the country for about, I think, a guy called strozner or someone who ruled the country for about 50 years. And there was one road connected to major parts of the country that he built. And to travel along that road, you had to sort of travel like armored personnel vehicles without riders and things. It was the most ridiculous, surreal experience. But it was an extraordinary, extraordinary place.</p>

<p>And it, Charles Murray has talked about this in the Bell curve, about how given dysgenics, given sort of increasing diversification within countries, you will get a process known as brazilianification and brazilian vacation will turn western countries into place in to Brazil. They will end up looking a lot like paraguay in terms of how how heterogeneous the populations will be. You have everyone living in little cramped areas with very high differences in wealth, extremes of poverty, extremes of wealth. Suppose those differences will become massively exaggerated over time, and you’ll end up with the sort of patchwork mosaic of countries within countries.</p>
:ET