I"'<p>How do other cold populations, such as siberian natives, inuit, compared to europeans in terms of Iq behavioral traits, etc?</p>

<p>The average iq um of the inuit is about 90 um, which is commensurate with that of Turkey. And it seems that the reason for it being, you know, cold winter’s theory would, of course, predict that it would be relatively high. But there are a number of reasons why he’s low, I will but not as high as, you know, as a hundred. One is that they are never developed farming. And of course, Kockrin and harpending have a verd in their book, the ten thousand year explosion that farming selects in favor of intelligence. Because it, um, it kills off those who who, I don’t have the forward thinking, the height, the time preference to to deal with farming. So that’s one reason it was impossible to do farming there. You don’t grow enough, so you have to be a hunter gatherer. And the second reason is the gene pool very small. The population lots of little, tiny populations, tiny populations. And so as a consequence which didn’t, which would meet up occasionally, but not that much. And so any genes that came along for um intelligence perhaps weren’t uh, particularly well selected for. They couldn’t really spread um. And just these very small populations.</p>

<p>Well, so one interesting thing about um inuits in particular is they have the biggest brains of any ethnic group, any a human ethnic group. And the large brains um do not, sort of, uh, correspond with their somewhat meager Iq, which has been recorded at around 90. So one possibility is that there’s been a lot of selection in this population for larger brains, where the function of the brain is not so much to promote cognition, but it is instead to facilitate some other form of high level visual discrimination for the purposes of being able to notice distinctions in very low contrast environments. That’s one theory that was put forward recently.</p>

<p>And then there’s Peter Frost’s theory, which is that a lot of the, a lot of the brain size in inuits might actually relate to having acquired, via culture, gene coevolution, special skills that allow these individual inuits to engage in these incredibly fine tusk work. Because, if you look at the the patination, they can, they can whittle these incredibly fine sort of figures and details out of tusks. These handicrafts essentially extremely skills intensive, but possibly not g-intensive. So that’s, that’s the could all relate to sort of visual spatial processing, which is somewhat independent of g and might might cap it might require larger amounts of cortical real estate.</p>

<p>In terms of personality, of course, it’s very difficult to measure, it’s very difficult to measure the personality difference between groups, because people will compare themselves to other groups and to those within their own group and so on. And so you get this crazy situation where where, when they’ve done this, nigerians come across as higher in conscientiousness than the Japanese. So it’s quite difficult to do. I think that’s really where kind of anthropology, traditional anthropology, traditional social anthropology, comes in. People to spend time with the inuit will tell you what they’re like. One of the problems is, when is alcohol. So there’s a very big problem with alcohol in these places because, of course, they’ve no adaptation to it, but yet they are exposed to it. And so i’m, according to anthropologist I know that spends a great deal of time in greenland, he says, well, look, the inuit is divided in about 50 50 between those that are religious and those that are alcoholic. You see, that’s pretty much it. An alcohol of alcoholism, of course, affects personality. My understanding is that they are, they are quite expressive, emotionally expressive. You’ll, you’ll find them kind of getting very happy and then getting very sad and crying and so on. Laybile basically, yeah, and that, but that, that’s just, you know, a couple of anthropologists, i’ve spent time with them that have told me that.</p>
:ET