I"<p>Des boaz’s findings the facial features of children of immigrants is much more unlike their foreignborn parents than expected means c.g. Young was right?</p>

<p>Well, boaz made those data up. And we know he made those data up because there was a big study published in proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences back in the 90s, which basically showed that he could only have made the data up, because there’s no way that there is sufficient, environmentality in these craniofacial morphometric traits to allow for the sort of changes that boaz was arguing for. And don’t forget, boaz was an ideologue. He was a, basically a marxist. And like Margaret Mead, who was another one who also made up a lot of data about those coming of age in samoa and all this sort of thing. She had this whole ethnography of samoans. It turned out the whole thing was made up, and she was never there, and it was all rubbish. Basically. A lot of his early sort of culture, cultural anthropology stuff is based on it wasn’t.</p>

<p>It wasn’t so. Can I just intervene there, because, you I do know about this. It wasn’t so much that it was made up. It was that she just, she went out there with the desire to prove a certain point. She only bothered to interview basically teenage girls.</p>

<p>But she didn’t, didn’t even go out there. But she should go out there, and she did go out.</p>

<p>She did. But she didn’t do what she should have done. She should have lived with them, lived among them. And because you’re in this highly subjective situation, she should have lived among them. And then she should learn their language and learned everything about them and observed everything as neutrally as you can. And she didn’t do that. She tried to live among them, and it was difficult because they were mosquitos and things. And she, you know. So she moved to the naval base. So she was really practicing the kind of anthropology of the 19th century, where you sat started Veranda and called in the the chieftain that spoke a bit of English or something, and chatted to him and wrote it down anyway. And then, she, so she selected what she wanted, and she asked them these questions, and they just giggled and lied and made things up because it was funny, because she was asking about sex, and she took these things at face value. And then Derek Freeman, years later, went down, I went out there, and he had lived among them and learned the language properly and all this. And he tracked down some of these, these participants, these subjects who were by their old ladies. And they said, oh yeah, we just light her because we thought it was funny. And she, and she published this stuff, as some people still defend her. It’s extraordinary, they still defend her. And they try to criticize freeman. I mean, freeman was mad as a bicycle, but there’s no evidence that he that he knew there were any problems with his research methods. I mean, his, she was saying there was no violence among them. And if you look at the court records, just look at the court records from samoa, they’re incredibly violent people. She was trying to, and some samoans have talked about this and said that it kind of dehumanizes us. It says that we’re different from normal humans. And we’re not. We get as violent as you do. In fact, they probably get more violent. So, so that was, yeah, it was slightly more complex than you’re saying, but, yeah, it was bollocks. So I’m not surprised that though, as was of a similar um kidney, as the phrase used to be.</p>

<p>Yeah, Boaz, the data that boaz presented indicated changes which were far, far outside of the range of what you would expect given the heritability of these, uh, these traits. And the chap responsible for this was a, uh, was was a chat called sparks. That was the name of the the author, sparks. So he was the one who wrote this, uh, who wrote this paper, which I think might have been wrong about it coming out in, I know it did come out in proceedings, so, yeah, it’s in proceedings. It came out, like in 2002 or something.</p>
:ET