I"<p>Gregory cochrane makes a good criticism of group selection. And I think it’s a good criticism, uh, resolve link genetics with high x theory of cultural evolution. So he’s saying that could be a resolution to connect the two. Cultural norms can be random, but can lead to genetic changes. And then to then on which I guess group selection acts.</p>

<p>There’s a couple of issues here we need to unpack. From what I understand of Greg’s criticism of group selection, this is what he’s told me when I have met him in the past. This is, this is what he has said to me, is that group selection is highly mathematically improbable, that it’s just a there’s a very, very low probability of happening. You need all the right elements to align, all the stars have to be in the right place, etc, etcetera, to get group selection going. So as a result of this, he thinks that because it’s such a low probability of occurrence, of having all the right elements there to make it happen, uh, it doesn’t happen.</p>

<p>However, the problem is, there are billions and billions and billions of species on earth, and there are also these things called field ecologists, who are these strange people, uh, who actually go out into the field and study wild humans in real, ecology, in their real ecological niches. And, also people who go out and study eusocial and cooperative breeding insects like termites. And these actual people who go out and study real animals in their real ecological context, and who take real measurements and actually look at the fitness, uh, payoffs to certain forms of cooperation, work out the degree of relatedness, and work out if it’s sufficient to allow models of kin selection to work routinely, and regularly show that it can’t work, the kin selection can not account for these behaviors in certain of these species.</p>

<p>Now, it’s certainly true that group selection is rare, and cochrane is right that it is rare because it has a low probability of occurring. But there are so many damn species that at least a handful have to have it simply because of the law of large numbers. And indeed, the two species which have it in abundance to humans and termites. Humans and termites most ecologically similar species out there. A lot of people think it’s chimpanzees, it’s not. Um, we I think we can learn more about our social ecology from termites than we can from chimpanzees. This, incidentally, is the position of Eo. Wilson as well. This is something that he has uh argued.</p>

<p>So essentially the group selection model is quite potent. It works in a small number of species, and it works at a mathematical level. It can better account for the observed behavioral ecology and things like kin selection. Actually, a good example if you’re interested in reading about this reid Keller’s book. Keller’s book a multilevel selection. It was an attempt to criticizing multilevel selection. And it proposes these these rube goldbergesque mathematical contrivances, these monstrosities of mathematics, to try and explain away impartimoniously explain all these anomalies in the ethological data. In certain cooperative breeding insects, where they try to salvage this idea of a sort of cryptic kin selection involving, you know, distant relation patterns being amplified through certain forms of interaction. It’s all horrible. And in parsimonious. And you can just account for it all with a much more elegant set of equations, which give you group selection.</p>

<p>I just find it, on a priori level, absolutely extraordinary, the the the vociferousness with which these kinds of people, and Richard Dawkins and Stephen Pinker and whatever, I object to group selection. It’s ideological, I think the part of the problem is, in the case of Richard dawkins he deliberately distanced himself from group selection, largely on the basis that, elements within the national front started using, a sort of selfish gene model, uh, and certain aspects of Hamilton’s work to try and, their ethno politics. And, this was in the 80s, and dawkins reacted very negatively to this around this time. But he started to sort of really turn away from group selection, which is interesting, because if you look at the extended phenotype, you can see all the elements of group selection are in there. They’re all in there. All the basics of group selection are in that book. It’s clear that he had those elements. And then in subsequent work, he denounces group selection.</p>

<p>And he does so on the most stupid of grounds. He does so by conflating units and levels of selection. And no group selectionist out there would disagree that the gene is always the unit of selection. Even when you’re selecting for groups, what you’re doing is you’re selecting the interacting gene swarms, right? Because the gene is the only thing that’s really reproducing. It’s the only thing that, broadly speaking, that’s conserved across generations. There might be some other stuff that, you know, very high levels of of aggregation. So the level of, you know, communities and ecosystems that might have might be subject to some very special forms of ecological sorting and sort of meta group selection, where you have other things, you know, the ecological legacy, ecological inheritance systems that may be additive with respect to genetic variants. But the fact is that at the level of humans, it’s the genes, it’s gene’s forms of the unit of selection, even when selection is acting at the level of the group.</p>

<p>So you have a situation here where a lot of the problems that we have, and pinker does this as well in his essay, his polemic against group selection, you can actually see him conflating units and levels of selection, time and time and time again.</p>

<p>The popular thing that he was in the slate or something, I was absolute nonsense. I couldn’t believe how bad the criticisms were group selection. It was almost like he was saying, look, the nature of darwinian selection is this. You’re deviating from it. You’re a heretic. I mean, it was absolutely preposterous, some of the stuff.</p>
:ET