I"L <p>Eukaryotes are a sort of a, as opposed to prokaryotes, are are organisms which have organized nuclei. So the chromosomes are are contained within a nucleus, and you have these, you know, divisions of organelles. So all nonbacterial and nonarchaean life is eukaryotic in the sense you have the presence of a nucleus. Prokaryotes are kind of indiscriminate. They just have the chromosomes floating around, you know, promiscuously within the cytoplasm, like bacteria and archaeans.</p>

<p>So she wants to know what, why do I think it took relatively a long period of time to evolve nuclear organization? You know, the creation of a nuclear envelope, evolution of a nuclear envelope, rather within a living thing? Because life arose, possibly in the first half a billion years of earth having formed. There’s some controversial evidence. The earliest precambrian fossils actually date back to four billion years. So it’s possible that life may have risen almost immediately after the after earth formed. But that life would have been very simple. It would have been sort of on the way to becoming prokaryotic, essentially. In the sense of having a sort of bacterial like structuring to it.</p>

<p>I’m not quite sure when did eukaryotic life arise? I know it didn’t arise until relatively recently. And for the longest period of time, we were basically just bacteria or protobacteria, essentially. So, essentially, you’re probably looking at there having to have been some major evolutionary transitions taking place in order to actually get you the eukaryotic life. Because one of the things eukaryotic cells seem to have is a property called endosymbiosis. And that’s associated with having organelles which clearly arose independently of the cell. So this would be mitochondria in the case of, you know, in the case of basically animal cells, and in the case of plant cells, it would be the  chloroplasts.</p>

<p>And if you look at chloroplasts, and Mitochondria, they have their own genomes, and it’s possible that that they started off, this is Lynne Margulis’s theory, for which she won the Nobel Prize, the endosymbiosis theory. But the precursor to modern eukaryotes and the precursor to contemporary mitochondria and chloroplasts, might have been three living organisms which entered into this kind of symbiotic relationship with one another, whereby one would function as a sort of battery to provide additional atp and other, you know, energy free, energy releasing molecules, essentially to fuel the eukaryote, which might have given it this this massive sort of boost in terms of the ability to do things and replicate and produce new biomass and spread and, you know, evolve to adapt to new niches and things like that, exploit novel energy resources, which might have been a really, really important first step. And basically, I think the current sort of consensus seems to be that it was about one and a half billion years after the first prokaryotes arose that the first eukaryotic life arose.</p>

<p>And, yeah, that was a very long time, especially compared to the mere one to half a billion years after the formation of the earth, that it took the first prokaryotic life to arise. So we’re looking possibly at a full two to three and a half billion years or there abouts, until the origin of the first eukaryotic cell. So maybe that was one of these great filters. You know, people talk about the idea of the great filter being this event that reduces the odds of life evolving to a sufficient state at which it can become intelligent and star faring and all this sort of thing. And maybe that’s the reason why we don’t have all these aliens coming and visiting us, as per fermi and heart, you know, the fermi heart paradox. Maybe the most living things never make it beyond the prokaryotic stage. And as a result, there’s one of your potential great filters.</p>

<p>And we could test that if we could go to other planets, or even if we could image other planets of high resolution and look at the ratios of gases in the atmosphere, as James Lovelock says we should be doing, we should be looking at these nonequilibrium chemistries, essentially, in the atmospheres to prove the existence of life. Because where there’s life, you get methane, you get these very shortlived, very, very chemically unstable compounds, which, you know, breakdown due to photolysis or autolysis. And if you have high concentrations of these in the atmosphere, which you can determine through spectroscopy, you don’t really need to go to the planet to tell that there’s living things there, because only living things can cause these weird, far from equilibrium atmospheric chemistries to exist in the first place.</p>

<p>So it’s possible there might be lots of life out there. It might be prokaryotic. It might be great bacterial mats, you know, slimy mats covering oceans on distant stars, but nothing resembling complex multicellular life, or even eukaryotic, endosymbiotic, highly organized, internally sort of organized life of the sort that is needed to produce high levels of intelligence, based on the fact we only have one example of this, and that is us. So, as far as we know it, you need to be us in order all, you need to be like us in order to actually attain the level of intelligence that we have. We have no alternative examples of this.</p>

<p>Dolphins are quite clever. And also killer whales. Their brains are actually much more convoluted they have more of these sulky and Gyry,  theseconvolutions on the surface than the human brain does, that the brains are relatively more encephalized as well, which is interesting. But they lack the ability to manipulate their environment. So try, try making fire underwater. It’s just not going to happen.</p>

<p>But also, the first thing about dolphins I understand is they only use half their brain at any one time, don’t they? They sleep half a brain, sleeps off the brain awake, because otherwise they they dry out on land, or they stop breathing in the water, or something. So, imagine if they could use both parts of their brain. And then they’d be really mega clever, wouldn’t they? They’re only using half a brain on there, isn’t that?</p>

<p>Well, when people say half a brain, this is a bit of a sort of a myth. Basically what what that claim means is that at any given point in time, for any arbitrary task, the entirety of the brain is not used to deal with that task. Now, given that there is some specialization in the organization of the brain, we know that there are certain things in the brain that can be damaged or broken, which cause to specific, which caused specific or perceptual aphasia. So, you know, this would be like parts of the broker’s cap, which inhibit the ability to understand spoken language, maybe certain wernicke regions, if they’re damaged, prevents you from being able to generate speech, but you can actually understand. We notice all these poor salts who’ve had strokes. Or people who’ve been phineas gauged, you know, they’ve had something go up their nose and through their brain, and they’ve survived, and it’s damaged frontal lobes or something that may now no longer have any impulse control. So basically, we know that there’s some localization. And this is unsurprising that if you take localization, you’re basically looking at a situation in which for any given task, there might be a lot of parts of the brain which have to coordinate to solve that task, but all of the brain is not going to get used in solving that task.</p>

<p>So there’s no real task where you can get every single part of the brain to simultaneously participate in solving it. And if you find yourself in a situation where you have large, many diverse regions of the brain simultaneously activating, you’re probably rolling around on the floor with your eyes and back of your skull, foam coming out of your mouth. That’s like a seizure. That’s what happens during seizures. So a normal brain, you’ll only get a small portion of the brain being used functionally at any given point in time in terms of dealing with a particular generating a particular unit of behavior, or solving a particular problem.</p>
:ET