I"t	<p>My father is dumb. Okay, my mother is probably above average. Iq, my brother is a brain surgeon, and I am an engineer doing ai research. Are my children doomed to be low Iq?</p>

<p>well, to that, i’d simply say, your father probably isn’t done. Although sometimes fathers seem dumb and do dumb things, but oftentimes it’s, believe me, just an act, and they can be remarkably intelligent when push comes to shove. So it’s probable that both your father and your mother have ample quantities of intelligence. And, this would explain this stunning success that you and your sibling have had in terms of excelling in your respective areas.</p>

<p>How often are people more intelligent than the most intelligent of their parents? How great can that differential be? Well, the answer is, we don’t know how great that differential can be, because that’s one of the great mysteries of emogenesis, of sort of nonadditive genetic effects, where you get these weird genes coming together, as I mentioned earlier in the case of genius, where you don’t really know what they’re going to do, and they tend to produce these quite extraordinary phenotypes that go on to great eminence and great accomplishment. And such individuals tend to be very difficult to predict ahead of the game. And as a consequence, you end up having to measure them based on that actual having had an impact on civilization, Ie, across convergently valid ratings of, uh, historio metric indices.</p>

<p>Within this there may be as much as 15 Iq points worth of difference between siblings, which is quite a lot. It’s a standard deviation. So in theory, you could have a situation in which you have a sibling who is a whole 15 iq point higher than you. So that could be simply one with 100, with 85 iq, one with an iq of of 100. You could have a nice sibling like 100 iq of 115. So it’s a lot of variant within, within siblings. So if parents had an iq it was closer to, say, 100, and they got this one sibling who was a standard deviation above the parents, then there’s the answer to your question. You could get a standard deviation difference based on the range of Iqs within the uh, within and among the offspring, although that would be quite rare, given these things tend to be averages. And the parents iq is generally a reliable, a reliable guide to the average of the children’s iq. The correlations are very high.</p>
:ET