I"d<p>Why are mormons so nice?</p>

<p>Brigham Young led all these mormons to through appalling winter conditions in Nebraska to Utah, and I wondered if and then when they got there, there was all kinds of violence with native Americans and also with other Americans, all kinds of fighting and violence. And could it be a group selection issue with the mormons? Could that be relevant to the mormons level of internal cooperation? What do you think? Was it just too too short a period, or whatever?</p>

<p>No, group selection can happen very quickly. And part of a reason it can happen very quickly is because basically there’s two sort of schools, the socalled cultural group selection model, which is based on the idea that you can start off with very, very small genetic differences between populations, which can be amplified at the level of culture into relatively larger group level differences. So in other words, what selection sees when it acts on culture, it’s not so much for small genetic differences between the groups, but the relatively large cultural differences. So to estimate the rate of evolutionary change, you need to compute a fst, or sort of differentiation statistical fixation index, that’s based on cultural difference, rather than the genetic differences between the groups. So that’s one school of thought, that’s the cultural fst model, which suggests that you can get very rapid cultural cultural change, as a result of that.</p>

<p>And there was another school of thinking which is that the heritability of traits rises in proportion to the degree to which you are aggregating the comparison groups. So the highest level of aggregation, all of that error will be cancelled out. So all of the difference between the group will ultimately be due to the substantive factors of genetics and environment, without any error, essentially. Which means the additivity term is going to rise. So when you have groups and competition, or groups in isolation that’s subject to group selection, you have a massive amount of heritability to deal with at the group level, which means you can have very, very rapid evolution, even if the group differences are very small in terms of genetic differences, simply because the heritability of those differences will be extremely high. And if you look at the breeders equation, which is an overly simplified model of getting at selection rates based on trait heritability, it’s fairly obvious, if you increase that heritability component, you will increase the concomitant rate at which selection will differentiate the groups. So 200 years is a blink of an eye in terms of historical time. But as far as group selection is concerned based on those two mechanisms, you can have a hell of a lot of group selection occurring in that period of time. A group selection is predicted to occur much more rapidly than individual level selection.</p>

<p>Would polygamy make it occur more rapidly? Would it speed things up? What would, how effect would that have? Because the mormons, for the beginning of them, for a hundred years</p>

<p>basically what it would do is it would skew the reproductive landscape in such a way that led to those mormons, or those individuals, presumably, with the traits which best adapted them to their cultural contingencies, leaving the largest share of offspring. So that is essentially what, uh, what polygamy would do would increase the share of descendants carrying the best possible genes for that particular set of environmental challenges that the group was faced with. So you can think of it as like a mechanism for accelerating rates of change across generations.</p>

<p>So it’s sped things up. They go to this new area, this basically indian territory. They’re putting themselves under in appalling conditions. They’re elevating the degree of darwinian selection pressure. Who’s having the most offspring under Polygamy. It’s successful males. So if everyone’s have leaving the majority of descendants, because most males in the group simply have nothing and simply leave no descendants, then the rate of change of gene frequencies across for generations will be accelerated. Now, there’ll be costs associated with this, costs which were so great that it almost certainly led to mormonism abandoning this practice. Male aggression increases. You have low trust, you have heightened inter male competitiveness, which actually weakens the fidelity of the group. So you need to balance group selection.</p>

<p>I don’t think group selection is sustainable under conditions of polygamy. Polygamy is not conducive to the levels of trust. It’s also not conducive to the low levels of Intra group competitiveness, which are needed to make group selection work. So in theory, if you look to the history of mormonism, my prediction would be that you’d look at the, uh, you’d basically be looking at some kind of oscillation between periods of intense group selection, characterized by low levels of polygonal and then periods of high polygony, characterized by low levels of group selection. So it could be that when the mormons were initially expanding into new territory and were in active competition with other groups, maybe indigenous groups, maybe other white settlers there, you probably had you probably had injunctions against polygamy.</p>

<p>But when the mormons were left to just sort of do the whole Bingham young thing and then establish themselves and and grow in numbers, they probably dropped the group selection and switched towards polygamist mode of reproduction. When they got to Utah in the 1850s, and there was all kinds of famines and there wasn’t enough food and whatever. And then there was a socalled mormon reformation, where they people hadn’t they argued that you’re not being polygamous enough. And they assert that the only you’re more likely to get into Heaven at the more polygamous you are. So they actually became more polygamous as the environmental pressures increased.</p>

<p>It depends on the environmental pressure. Suppose environmental pressures favored specific success of individually level selected traits, then yes, polygamy would be a very good way of increasing the rate of evolution for those traits. If it requires group selected traits, then no, polygamy is not a good way to go. You need monogamy, because you need that high level of trust, that high binding within the group, in order for it to essentially be able to function as an organic unit in intergroup competition. So corporate and individual level fitness are often negatively associated with each other, and you need a balance between the two in order for the multilevel selection matrix to actually work.</p>
:ET