I"/<p>Are geniuses mutants who just aren’t spiteful? I had a discussion with Bruce Charlton about this once, and he had this idea that if you were from a sort of lower class background or whatever, and you just randomly were very clever by genetic chance, then presumably, you’d have other problems by genetic chance. So you’d have basically a mutation load. But some of those mutations would be good, like very high iq, but others would be bad. And so it would follow that in at least in some cases, it may all be so that geniuses would indeed be nonspiteful mutants. Is that fair enough?</p>

<p>He called them evil geniuses. But we redefined them as a novel anthropological type. We call them antigeniuses. And they’re like spiteful mutants on steroids. These are spiteful mutants who have the ability to massively externalize the fitness costs to their mutations by coming up with ideas that just ruin fertility for normal people. We gave a couple of examples of very prominent, actually, in many cases, female, intellectuals, scare quotes, on both the right and the left, funnily enough. So we found examples from the political right as well as the political left, who had actively, and, by their words you shall know them, who have actively promoted in their own works antinatalist ideals and values. And we hold them up as exemplars of the superlitic type personality.</p>

<p>Those people, though, if they’re female, I would simply call them witches. These are in a league of their own. Just as geniuses are sort of an extreme example of positive social epistasis. Because these geniuses increase the group level fitness of their host populations massively through inventing some amazing gadget, or a novel method of cartography, or some mathematical formula, or something that allows that group to prevail in conflict, or explore and colonize new territories, or go to the moon, or go to mars, or what have you. You know, this is what these geniuses do, they elevate the group fitness. These antigeniuses, they do things that massively circumscribe the fitness of their groups, that their ideas redound negatively on group fitness. Like Margaret Mead.</p>

<p>Andrea Dwarkin was one of the examples. A sort of living, you know, living simulacrum of Jabba the hutt, essentially. But extraordinarily influential and very intelligent. You know, must never be understated the level of intelligence that these these individuals have. She was an incredibly intelligent person, but she was her, she was purposively driven towards, towards reducing the fitness of her host population, rather than boosting it, which she might have done had her mutation load be somewhat lower. So that that’s, that’s one example. But there are actually quite a few, we’ve found. And we’ve looked at their writings, and we found some indications that these, these individuals are overwhelmingly childless, which makes them actual, actually typical of the broader genius type, essentially.</p>

<p>But they’re not trying to be parochial. And collectively evoncular, they’re doing the opposite. They’re trying to spite their own populations by radically critiquing these group selected institutions and deconstructing them and replacing them with norms which are antinatalist and all this sort of thing. And they use their high intelligence to do this. They’re very effective at doing this. And in the absence of group selection, there’s a sort of pathway through which the carriers of these variants can attain this extreme power and have this extreme negative effect on social epistasis, which they wouldn’t be able to have under conditions where you had high group selection. People who have been imbued with religiosity and purposefulness and existential meaning, and they wouldn’t put much stock in these ideas, and they kind of socially exclude people like this. So, essentially that’s what we mean by the antigenius in this context.</p>

<p>I think Andrea dawkins got to qualify as one of the worst people in late 20th century. What we’re trying to do, and this is really difficult to do, is to work out the leverage effect. So we’ve got these measures of corporate fitness, of type 2 group fitness, that’s the ratio of your group to the rest of the planet’s population. So how well you are doing as a group is a function of how much of you there is, what your standing population size is at any given point in time, relative to the rest of the world’s population. So if you look at European Americans, for example, europeans as an ethnic group, as a whole, they’re increasing as a proportion of the world’s population up until around 1900, and thereafter they start to decrease.</p>

<p>So you can use this as a very pure measure of group competitive, group selected competitiveness. And you can do this at the level of specific empires as well. We have a wonderful paper in which we look at the british empire of anglophonic brits, and we look at gaelic population, we look at where all the french people are living, and we look at the ratio of the changes in the sizes between these two populations over time. And you can see that as the british Ethni essentially increases its share of the world’s population. French ethni decreases, until they reach a kind of stable equilibrium where the brits are three times more numerous.</p>

<p>I don’t know if people here are familiar with Andrea Dawkin, but this woman endorsed incest, for God’s sake. I mean, this woman argued that the relationship between a parent and a child was sexual. She challenged every single normatitive value. Vile, vile. And she looked vile. And, died young, fortunately, she was only about 60. But very intelligent and very, very, very capable of penetrating into the elite, which she did with applause. She was extraordinarily well received by her fellow elites. She was given a platform. She’s one of the most celebrated, second wave feminists alive. She was instrumental in initiating the third wave of feminism. She had a huge impact. But given the nature of our societies and given the lack of group selection, and given the lack of filtration favoring group selected phenotypes among the elites, she embodies a kind of, you know, an antitype essentially a reverse group selective phenotype. And as a consequence, she was able to achieve considerable he’s very overweight, but nevertheless, weighed the same as a duck.</p>
:ET