I"b
<p>Are you familiar with Dr Sam Vaknin? And do you agree with this assertion that narcissism, cluster b, is a human evolutionary progression?</p>

<p>So here’s, here’s the thing, Sam Vaknin, there is some debate online about whether he actually has a phd or not. Despite the credential issue, he is a sort of Temple grandin of narcissism, narcissistic personality disorder. So Temple Grandin, as you know, is this person who has these remarkable sort of insights into the nature of autism, because she is autistic herself. But she’s in a rather unusual position in that she can actually communicate elements and facets of her experience of autism, which yield very interesting clinical insights into what might be going on there.</p>

<p>Back Vaknin is a similar sort of person. I’ve always found his writings on narcissism to be extremely interesting. I read his book, I think shattered mirror or something, or narcissus or so he had, I think he said one or two, but he wrote a very good book on it, which I i recommend reading, actually. It’s very interesting. He’s also been the subject of a documentary, which was quite interesting, where they went into the background, whether he had a real phd, and all this sort of thing. He has narcissistic personality disorder himself. So these guys tend to make up a lot of stuff. As he will tell you, uh, he actually is quite upfront about that fact.</p>

<p>So, his theory, I think, is quite interesting, in that, I think narcissistic like personality. So this is not fullblown narcissism, it’s a clinical sort of presentation of narcissism. That would bring you into conflict with the law, or would bring you into conflict with others, but would lead to people sort of looking at you and thinking well, you’re a bit selfabsorbed. This sort of narcissism, I suspect, is actually under positive, directional selection in modern populations. Moreover, it is something, I think, that is encouraged to arise in developmental time.</p>

<p>And I believe that the research of people like Jean twenty, who was the one who coined the term narcissism epidemic, is fundamentally sound. I do actually think that, uh, I do actually think that that narcissism is on the rise, and that is in part due to genetic selection favoring narcissists, which is what you’d expect in the absence of group selection. Because under group selection, you select the selfless individuals. Under individual level selection, you select as selfish individuals. Civil rights of narcissism is really a sign of the times that it’s what you’d expect given the pattern of selection operating on modern western populations.</p>
:ET