I"<p>I’ve been learning some interesting things, and disturbing things actually, about the mouse utopia experiments. It seems that, they didn’t really replicate very well. And i’ve actually dug up a couple of, a couple of examples of sort of failed, or quasifailed, patients of the original mouse utopia work, which doesn’t really bode well, but also things he didn’t do, which which was suggestive of other factors that may have been at play, such as the possibility of infectious diseases, which can cause sterility in mice.</p>

<p>It was only one of his mouse universes that actually yielded the results, and that was universe 25. He doesn’t really talk about the other universes in the other experiments in his book, and he kept very poor notes as well. So could it be that the mouse utopia stuff doesn’t actually replicate? And could it be a sort of another victim of the replication crisis. This is an interesting possibility that i’ve now started to take very seriously. If you look at in modernity and cultural decline, we actually discuss the problems with the mouse utopia work in chapter six.</p>

<p>It doesn’t mean that, uh, it doesn’t mean that spiteful mutational meltdown isn’t a real problem. Because, don’t forget, we have experimental work, which shows that if you actually introduce spiteful mutants to fitness codependent mice, you can cause them to do all sorts of pathological things. So it might have been, under some of these experiments, do you, perhaps, to a fortuitous initial conditions, such as having a highly inbred founding strain who had high frequency of this mutation to begin with, or something, he might have been getting the mutational meltdown. But it seems that under the sort of uncontrolled pregenetics, type behavioral sync paradigm that he was working in, it was very difficult to get this effect.</p>

<p>It might be that if you were to set it up with genetically controlled initial conditions, you could get the effect every single time. That’s something worth investigating. But what it does mean is that we should take Caulhoon’s work with a serious pinch of salt, because it does seem that at best, it only partially replicates, insofar as only one, at least only one of the the dissertations that I managed to get hold of showed partial replication in a pilot study they did based on Cole hoon’s work. Were not able to replicate the collapse, that Caulhoon observed in Universe 25. And there’s another thesis which shows no evidence of the collapse at all, actually just shows the colony just goes on and on and on and on and on indefinitely.</p>

<p>There could have been a problem eventually. And again, there’s like a waiting time issue that might apply to the issue. How long do you have to wait to get spiteful mutations if they’re very rare, if they make up only a small proportion of the overall mutational spectrum, and the probability of getting them is extremely rare? And it might be that you need a long waiting time to actually get them. And it might be these experiments are not conducted under long enough time periods, right? You might need to run them for multiple, multiple, multiple generations, like a decade or something, to really get the effect. But I think setting up the experiments on a much smaller scale, a bit like this group of cardiff did work. They actually just took these small, sort of collections of mice, and they, they knew all the genotypes of the mice, you know, wild types, and then a couple of mutants. And we knew exactly what mutations were going on, and they could reverse the effect of mutation. So they could, you know, reverse the any of any effect of the mutant on the wild type. Those sort of experiments give us proof positive of the pathway through which negative social epistasis is severe. It’s a quality experiment.</p>
:ET