I"#<p>What’s going on with savant brains?</p>

<p>I wrote a paper in which I discussed the savantism phenomenon, which is, which is very interesting. My theory of cervantism is that these are individuals with extremely low general genetic quality. So they have genomes that are full of mutations, but they’re trying to pursue a slow life history strategy. So be unable to execute the adaptations, necessary to catalyze an effective slow life history strategy.</p>

<p>So what they do is they produce a broken slow life history strategy with certain exaggerated slow life history characteristics, including these autistic like traits that are taken to these very extreme levels. And what we call cognitive differentiation effort, which is something I discovered a couple of years ago. I predicted that it should exist, that people with slow life histories should, in fact, have very, very specialized repertoires of cognitive ability, because this reflects a kind of ecological niche splitting tendency, a tendency to seek out and become a specialist as a way of cooperatively competing with other specialists under high population density conditions which characterize more k selected environments. And the result of this is divisions of labor. And you get sort of competitive release, and you can raise the carrying capacity the environment, etc, etc.</p>

<p>So when you have sort of very high levels of mutations in your genome and you’re highly developmentally unstable, you might try to develop slowlike history characteristics, and you might develop defective, slow life history.</p>

<p>I thought that autism is a fast life history strategy. No, it’s not. It’s a slow life history strategy. Trade read Marco’s work. But it’s associated with with the testosterone and things like this. No, that’s not part of a life history continuum. It’s associated with a behavioral complex or syndrome of traits, which positioned them very definitely on the slow end of a life history continuum.</p>

<p>Schizotypal behavior with its verbal tilt and hypermentalizing and hypersexuality, this is the fast life history, but it isn’t part of hypermentalizing over empathizing. Basically, that’s a past life history trait when it’s misapplied. And actually, if you look at schizotypal people.</p>

<p>Empathy is a slow life history trade. It is a slow life history trade. But this is not what, um, this is not what, uh, schizotypal people are hyper emotional. They are not hyper empathizing. They are actually, they are characterized by a poverty of affect. They are aromantic, and they are incapable of forming social attachments. What they are, however, is hyper-libidinous and hypersexual. And they’re hyperemotional, and they require emotional investment from others. They need emotional supply from others, which is why they also tend to be quite high on some of these dark triadic traits, where we supply side traits, such as narcissism, where they need approval and all this sort of thing. And they’re emotionally labile, meaning that they tend to be quite unstable.</p>

<p>But they are not capable of focusing. If you’ve ever interacted with fullblown schizotypal people, and I knew one person when I was an undergraduate who was a fullblown schizotypal, they are completely incapable of even the most basic form of effective attachment, even social attachments, are beyond them. They can’t. They can not form that kind of, you know, that kind of social bond you get with a good friend. It’s incapable. They’re absolutely incapable of that. And these people highly interpersonally…</p>

<p>Are they worse at that than autistic people? Autistic people are actually, based on the sort of current, current syndromology of autism, they’re actually capable of forming strong attachments to both places and people. What they’re very, very bad at doing is reading social situations. So they’re very, very bad at being able to respond to emotional cues and incentives in their environment. What they do, what they are capable of doing, however, is is is forming strong bonds. And they often get very rooted, very attached to places and very attached to things. In particular, they can form, he’s a nice person, but a klutz.</p>

<p>This is schizotypy, this is not the same as schizophrenia. The sequence of readings on this should be, start off with crespi and Babcock’s 2009 paper. Then move on to Marco Delgado’s frontiers in evolution in psychology paper, where he recasts the crespi and babcon stuff using life history framework. And then look at Marco’s new book on evolutionary psychopathology.</p>

<p>So to round this back to the question that we got initially about cervantism. In my own work, relevant paper is one I published in 2011 in a journal called a review of general psychology. In my own work, I postulated that cervantism is a form of, extremely defectively executed, slow life history type personality. The defective genes are preventing the successful canalization of that slowlike history phenotype leading to exaggerations of certain aspects of this including the ability to develop extreme cognitive specialization. And that one thing savants are characterized by are extreme memory feats. So the ability to recreate objects from clay, for example, after just looking up at once, or be able the ability to draw an entire cityscape. These are famous examples of socalled idiots savants, although you’re not meant to call them that anymore, intellectually disabled savants, essentially, very famous examples of these individuals who who can do these incredible memory feats, but on Iq tests, the score is about 70. Typically it’s very, very, very low. But they have these one niche a bit, there’s one niche ability in which they put all of their cognitive effort, all of the differentiation effort, all that slow like history, sort of squirreling away of resources, has gone into cultivating that one specialized ability. Because they can’t develop a more even profile. They can’t develop in other ways, essentially because of the genetic handicaps that they have.</p>

<p>Could you talk a little more about autism, Schizophrenia Continuum? Chris Crespi and babcock, who wrote a paper in behavioral brain sciences, or bbs, which is a very good paper, where they talk about the these two being the schizotype and autistic like personality being two opposing sides of the same coin. But Marco Deljiniche wrote, who’s an evolutionary psychologist now with the University of New Mexico, in around 2011, wrote a paper in which he, in which he sort of integrated, crespi and Babcock’s model into evolutionary psychology. And in so doing, he developed this, this idea of a continuum of life history traits, where you have slow life history, so autistic like psychopathologies, and you have fast likely to be schizotypey like psychopathologies. And Marco recently read, wrote a book. I can’t remember who published the book. Probably knowing him, a bloody good book publisher. He’s a very talented researcher. Um, he, his book came out recently on evolutionary psychopathology. It’s a very, very good book. I’d strongly recommend reading it. Uh. So shout out there to Marco and his book. It’s a, it’s, it’s really an exquisite piece of work. He’s very, very talented.</p>

<p>So there’s a continuum with with aspects. I suppose you’d save autism at one end. What Marco does is he takes, he takes this continuum model and he uses it to look more broadly at psychopathology. So he looks at other forms of psychopathology as well, depression, you know, anxiety disorders, things like this executive disorder, which is a fascinating condition where you have a sort of defective frontal lobes. And it means that you you start randomly, sort of associating, gives you this heightened ability to do this free association, and you produce these sort of nonsensical ideations, like, all of a sudden you might, you might start combining random words together, and you might produce some sort weird word salad type thing. All of these things he looks at in the context of the sort of evolutionary development, is more on the sort of developmental side. This Evo Devos, it’s called framework, whereby you can, you can look at these things as as manifestations of an underlying, life history continuum, essentially.</p>

<p>So it’s really good, and it’s a huge step forwards from this, this sort of manual of madness, as James Thompson calls it, which is the dsm, and it’s varients, where this you have this, this sort of clustering, ad hoc clustering of these personality deficiencies, essentially based on some, you know, group B, group a, Et cetera, dramatic type disorders, whatever. You you you have a sort of ursats clustering of these things in a way which doesn’t necessarily make sense when you look at this as a continuum model, and you use evolutionary theory to make sense of this.</p>
:ET