I"7<p>How might the international relocation of species affect the future environment of selection? For example, sweet corn in Europe, European Diaspora, no wolves in Britain Zoo. Animal escapes internationally.</p>

<p>I can give you a very good answer to that question, and that is my colleague, my colleagues and I at the University of Arizona are working on a theory, which we call the portmanteau traveling biota theory. And the portmanteau traveling biota theory is based on the idea that humans reciprocal. Humans and their domesticates exerted a reciprocal influence on one another’s evolution. And that humans, when they spread, when different populations spread to different parts of the world, they actually don’t just spread. It’s not this bunch of people moving over to this other part of the world. They bring with them their portmanteau biota. That means they’re diseases. That means their domesticates, their cultivars, their crops, etc, their pests, vermin, all of that travels with them.</p>

<p>And it’s interesting because there are strong coevolutionary pressures which have arisen in the course of human evolution from domesticates. A good example would be lactate persistence and its spread. It’s obvious that if you can metabolize lactose, you can break that down and use it as a dietary sugar. You can liberate huge numbers of calories for very little effort. All you need to do is have dairy, right? So it’s not a surprise that lactase persistence spread concomitantly with dairy in culture, ie, the spread of cows, right? So where you get one, you get the other.</p>

<p>This is one of the earliest examples of a um, you know, of an unambiguous culture gene coevolution. But don’t forget, we also did things to cows to the course of their evolution, which affected their evolution. So domestication was very much a two-way street.</p>

<p>The same is true of crops. All this nonsense people have about they can’t digest this, that’ll be other substance, like gluten. Well, it turns out that, yes, some people can digest it. Other people have a harder time digesting it. And the gluten sufficiency might actually relate to a history of how we coevolve with respect to certain domesticate some of which may have produced foodstuffs that were very rich in gluten. So, things like cheese and things like that. So it’s, it’s clear that there is this tremendous coevolutionary pressure. Essentially that humans, humans evolve not just in isolation. They evolve in relation to their surrounding ecology. And they exerted reciprocal effects on the composition about ecology and the way they influenced the selective pressures acting on specific species through artificial selection, in turn influenced the sets of relationships that existed between those species and other species, which meant you could have these massive impacts on the surrounding ecology as a consequence of the action of human domestication pressures.</p>

<p>So it’s a hugely important question, and it’s one for which we’re gathering data in terms of being able to comprehensively test this portmanteau biota model. And actually, there’s a very good paper i’d recommend of us which was published. It’s kind of like a precursor to this. It was published in the Journal evolutionary psychological sciences. And in this paper we look at this very mysterious association which seems to exist between the presence of coniferous plants, perennial plants, but ones which are present in more normally latitudes, and parasite burden and k selection in humans. And what we find is that the presence of these, these evergreen plants, or these, you know, these perennial plants, which drop their leaves onto the ground once a year, like Oak, woody dicots, essentially the presence of these strongly mediates the association to the prevalence of parasites in the environment and your level of life history speed, so how slow your life history is.</p>

<p>And; it turns out that the reason the plants mediate this association is because what’s happening is the plants are engaging in chemical warfare against parasites in the soil, pushing the numbers of those parasites down, which in turn releases humans from a major source of r selection, Ie, disease outbreaks that cause unpredictable mortality and morbidity, which is the major factor selecting fast life history.</p>

<p>So where you have all these plants, you have a strong coevolutionary pressure. Essentially, the plants are doing something for humans, which means the humans are more likely to do things that are going to encourage the growth of these plants. So that’s a good example of this reciprocal effect, which is mediated through the effect of a plant on parasites and the downstream effect that’s had on human at the human adapted landscape in these regions.</p>

<p>The authority on this is this great historian, hugh trevor roper, who was ennobled as Lord Darker oh the invention of modern scotland. And in that book, he dispels all the myths about Tartans and kilts and tartary and romantic revivalism and all that stuff. He’s a very thorough job. He was a very solid historian.</p>
:ET