I"<p>And one of the things that was very noticeable is the violent level of sort of middle classness of the young people that turn up at these things. So that’s a big change, because 20 years ago, I don’t think, at least with the one in Austria, it would have been that kind of demographic that would have turned up, educated, young, intelligent people, rather than, you know, yobos. So there’s some kind of change that’s, that’s going on. These are these conservative people, and the it’s almost like the far left are creating this, this sort of borderline civil war, almost, and you you have to take aside, you have to take aside. You know, they’re making people take a side.</p>

<p>Well, it’s happening with the political polarization is real. The studies by Turchin and others have shown that political polarization in the west, mainly with reference to the US Cohort. The political polarization in the west is higher now than it has been at any point in history. And interestingly enough, the data indicate that, uh, polarization among Americans politically today is higher than it was prior to the civil war, in the antebellum period. So it’s, very interesting. And actually, Turchin has gone on record as predicting that the 2020s are going to be a decade of strife. They’re going to be a decade of civil unrest. He predicts there’s going to be very significant political violence in the 2020s and going forwards. Which is, which would be consistent with high levels of polarization. And also, you know, some of the things we’re starting to see today, like in Portland, with these antifa groups and these, you know, these rightwing groups coming out to, you know, actively sort of, counterprotest them, you know, and direct that, deflect their tactics. If polarization was occurring, then then the the, as it were, extreme would become more mainstream and would be more attractive to more intellectual types, which is what I very much noticed in Osloo, where you had these thugs in front of the buildings, right stops, getting in these, you know, rich, young Antifa people. And then, and then in the um inside just very charming people. What’s the thing called by  Turchin? Because i’ve quite liked some of his stuff. Yes, he’s published a lot of interesting things. I wish he would be more sort of evolutionary and genetic in his thinking. Um, but then again, it’s probably a good thing that he isn’t, because it means i’d be out of a job, because a lot of my work involves actually applying genetic and evolutionary data to understanding these cliometric trends. So I guess it just means more, more goodies for me. But yes, he’s written a book on it, and I’m blanking on the name of the book. But there’s another woman called Jean Twenge, who’s also very good, who does secular i’ve read that.</p>

<p>No, i’ve read, i’ve read Twenge. She came, she coined the term narcissism epidemic. So she’s responsible for a lot of work. Again, she’s not an evolutionist. She’s a kind of, you know, social causation person, an environmentalist, but working for high quality.</p>

<p>Yeah. She wrote her, just briefly, she wrote a paper in which she used a different model, which also showed attitudinal polarization in western public so it seems to be there. It seems to be robust, and it seems to be getting worse. And that’s what these massively studies indicate. And we write about this at length in our book, because this is a big piece of evidence we rely on for, uh, you know, for our socio biological model of civilizational declension. Basically</p>
:ET