I"O=<p>The difference between the upper class and the working class, and this idea that the upper class have more kind of um, ethnocentric values, and that the working class seemed to as well. And with the middle class, these values seem to be more individualistic. And then there was a rise in the middle class which displaced the traditional upper class and has therefore left us in a situation where we’re not ethnocentric enough. It was this kind of thing we were discussing.</p>

<p>Okay, well, basic idea is, well, it’s based on an observation from gregory clark’s work. And gregory clark, many of you who are familiar with this canon, is a gentleman who showed, that over many generations, you had this sort of downward social mobility among the among the middle classes. Essentially they they reproduced to excess, and because there was very high levels of mortality among those below them in the socioeconomic status hierarchy, and you had a lot of variants among the offspring and descendants of the middle classes, you’d have downward social mobility among the less able descendants. So these may be sort of younger sons of younger sons of younger sons, etc, they would eventually come to replace, by this trickledown effect, working classes.</p>

<p>Except in so doing, they will bootstrap the working classes. They’ll actually raise the average level of traits like intelligence among the working classes, which pulls the whole society up by its bootstraps, essentially. And this is because society, in success of generations, comes to be dominated by the descendants of downwardly socially mobile members of the former middle class, one of the things these members of the middle class were doing, in addition to being downwardly socially mobile, was being upwardly socially mobile, somewhat lesser extent. And they’re being awkwardly socially mobile insofar as they were basically replacing the old aristocracies. Because the same data that clark brings to bear on the question of downward mobility among the middle classes also shows a little upward social mobility too. So the old aristocracy sort of went extinct. Didn’t go extinct, it thinned essentially, and it was replaced by a middleclass people who came up to replace the old aristocracy. So you can see all peerages, baronets and things which were created in the 18th and 19th century. The newer creations tended to be created people who were not connected to the great noble houses in the Uk. They were middle class people, politicians, entrepreneurs, philanthropists, etc. So it’s a little bit both ways.</p>

<p>One of the traits that is conducive to middle class reproductive success may well have been individualism. And it may well have been this sort of work ethic value. That meant you’ve got the evolution of a more sort of cosmopolitan phenotype, so one which has less of a sense of place. Can I stop you there? Can i’ve been thinking about this as well, though perhaps in a way that you would find boring.</p>

<p>Basically you’ve got this, this feudal society. This society of sort of chivalrous nightly values of ethnocentrism, where everyone’s in a sort of a hierarchy of almost gang warfare. The person at the top looks after you in return for you being a knight for him. And then you’re a yeoman for that knight, in return for him sort of looking after you in a sort of a system of really, kind of gang gang loyalty, of fealty. And you’re saying that the with the middle class sort of becomes a class really. It becomes a separate thing, and starts to dominate by breaking with this. Well, what I’m saying is that the middle class are essentially a bred for high levels of individualism. And they are bred for considerable degrees of …</p>

<p>Basically, the middle classes have a sort of aspirational value system, which can broadly be linked in with values like cosmopolitanism, individualism, etc, etc. And these values are basically they’re values, which are really, really good if you’re industrious and you want to sort of strike out on your own, and you want to be innovative and you want to create novel things, and you want to go out and sort of spread around and go to different parts of the world and set up enterprises in other parts of the world. This, by the way, is what the middle classes were doing in Britain and in the netherlands as well, which is a bioculturally very similar country, to England, at the beginning of the 19th century, because various dutch and British East indies and west indies companies. In both cases, both countries, they both had east and west indies companies, which were corporate entities which basically ran the empires. These were, informal modes of imperials, which were dominated by a middle class which was essentially, driven by an interest in in profit and sort of material accumulation.</p>

<p>You don’t have those values among the old aristocracy? Didn’t happen in the values of the old aristocracy of Britain, where the idea was that the aristocrats were paternalistic, and the aristocrats basically, managed their land, and managed people on the land, and had this sort of paternalistic value system, which is broadly construed under the rubric of something called high toryism. And the sort of high tory value system that emphasizes this ideas of place, continuity and land and rootedness, etc. And it looks down on on commercial enterprise. It looks down on all of these these what are sort of regarded as squalid and petty little sort of interests and things like money.</p>

<p>And on the continent, the old aristocracies in the continent sometimes have formal systems to stop them from getting involved in business. So it used to be in Spain, I believe I might be wrong about this, it may even know better than I do on this, but in Spain, they had a system, in the continent, sorry, they had a system in Spain, rather where if you chose to engage in mercantile or merchant type activity, you were actually stripped of your noble status. It’s considered a deadly sin, essentially. And there were, there were formal mechanisms which actually prevented members of the aristocratic class from engaging in middle class type behaviors and commerce.</p>

<p>Moving to the lower classes, the lower classes, the lower working class in the case of America, a working class in the case of the Uk as well. The lower classes, the working classes, have always tended towards a sense of place type mindset. You can see this in the value systems that they tend to espouse. Even today. They, they tend to favor populism. They tend to favor various forms of patriotism. Even during World War one, which was very illustrative, because you had a situation in which Marx…</p>

<p>That’s where I find it a little bit confusing this model. Because the working class are constantly changing, aren’t they? According to this idea that you’re proposing, the working class are constantly being filled with middle class. So the people that were working class, that were Serfs, let’s say, in the 1300s, they wouldn’t have any descendants today, or hardly any of them would. Only the 20% or so that survived the black death managed to move upwards, Otherwise they would, these workingclass people, people would have no descendants. So do you mean that this system began after the industrial revolution, once the system of the working the poor dying out stopped.</p>

<p>The majority of modern, contemporary workingclass people are going to be descended from reproductively successful, middleclass people, essentially, from previous centuries. The the difference between them and the current middle class is a matter of conjecture. But one thing we do is in terms of the value system that they express. It became very obvious in World War one that a general strike, this marxist fantasy about the workers of the world uniting with one another to make common cause against capitalists and aristocrats who were leading, essentially from front in World War one, um they it was that the german workers in the trenches would make common cause with british workers in the trenches, and they would unite and turn on the officers. So they’d be the sort of mass fragging event, essentially, which would, which would trigger the the revolution. This is what Angles believed, of course, that failed. So Lenin had to confess several new stages of history, like imperialism and fascism and all this other stuff, which he said created false consciousness among the workers and prevented them from from realizing their true class interests.</p>

<p>So in essence, it became apparent at that point, although I dare say the value system is much older than that, that members of working classes in Europe were more patriotic and saw themselves as having more in common with their officer corps, many of whom were drawn from the old aristocracy, than they did with the working classes of an entirely different country. And from a genetic similarity theory standpoint, this makes perfect sense. Because genetic, based on a just calculation of the relative versus absolute degrees of genetic differentiation, members of the working class in the Uk. Are going to be more genetically similar, on average, to members of the aristocratic class. When you compare to members of the working classes in Germany or the netherlands, the relative genetic distance between them is going to be very high compared to that other group.</p>

<p>So at the level of fitness payoffs, it makes sense this mode of cooperation should exist. But it also illustrates that there are these values among the working classes, which, by the way, still contribute disproportionately to our armed forces. The armed forces still draw, still recruit, disproportionately from the working classes in western countries. So there’s something about working-class people which make them very patriotic. Very dutiful, high levels of sort of dutifulness, and they also have an extremely strong desire to basically protect the common wheel, to protect the common good. And that’s about as far as I got with thinking about this, thinking about this model and developing it. So I don’t really have much more to say about that. It’s a model which requires proper testing, and we need proper data. And it’s all very well engaging in conjecture on this, but conjecture it is. And that’s, that’s what needs to be stated.</p>

<p>I don’t quite get the idea that, with the working class having similar values to the upper class would that be? Do you think a matter of of environment or relative poverty? You’ve got two different things pushing them in an ethnocentric direction? If you’re poor, at the bottom of society? There’s evidence that poverty correlates with ethnocentrism, that low Iq correlates to ethnocentrism, that that the the working class have these ethnocentric values for significantly, perhaps environmental reasons more so. And it’s the upper class, that are a kind of preserved caste, that have them more for genetic reasons. Would that be possible?</p>

<p>Well, I suspect that most things have a genetic basis, and that in this instance, we will probably find some genetic variants which are conserved across these social groups, but which are absent in the middle somewhere. I mean, one thing we know is that iq, for example, which is obviously negatively associated with socioeconomic status. Is also negatively associated with certain forms of ethnocentrism. Which suggests that, at least within the normal range of the population, most of these more sense of place, what you call Anticosmopolitan values, are going to be more heavily concentrated among those with lower socioeconomic status. And their determinants, of course, I mentioned, iq about the personality traits as well, may also play a role in determining these predispositions.</p>

<p>But again, it’s a model which really, for which we really need better data, and it’s a model which i’d like to look into more once I get hold of some of the sort of data that gregory clark has been looking at with regards to intergenerational mobility patterns.</p>

<p>It could be that there’s even something about the old working classes which never fully went extinct, which survived and persisted, and despite being diluted by genetic, sort of downward genetic movement from the middle classes into the working classes, it never got diluted away completely. So what you, what you may be seeing there is the old peasantry still there, still among the working classes. But again, this is something that we need actual proper genetic data to test. You can only go so far with surnames, which is what gregory clark likes to say.</p>

<p>This is like this idea that if we’d still, we had some of the gentry still in power in the 80s when we were, we were younger, you know, William White Law and, uh, people like this, Geoffrey Howard, Viscount whitelaw, no children. The last, the last hereditary viscounts. He had two daughters, two two daughters, neither of whom could inherit. They were debarred from inheriting things. The title went extinct two years after it was created.</p>

<p>The idea being that that had this gentry stayed in charge, perhaps the society would have maintained these ethnocentric values. So in one big event that led to this old class essentially dying, going extinct was world war one. It was a slaughterhouse. The ratio, the kill ratio, was hugely biased against members of the upper class. And the upper class led from the front. They actually went into the trenches, took on leadership roles, and they fought, and they went out there over the top with the men and got mowed down. And these families were just decimated. And whole swaths of the peerage went extinct. Whole tranches of the baronetics went extinct. All these old titles went extinct. I remember somewhere, I read the statistics of the attrition rate was 30, something like that. We lost 30 percent of our old noble names, essentially, absolutely horrendous. So this would have had an effect, then, on the nature of society. There was a book at the time, published during World War one, which suggested that the the best of the breed.</p>

<p>He is often attributed as having coined the word dysgenics in this book, War and the Breed, which was kind of a polemic against war. And he believed, I think, quite rightly, that war was highly dysgenic when it was mechanized, when when war was about massacring as many of the opposing people as possible using machines that do so the greater distance, war was highly dysgenic. When war was about sort of meeting on the battlefield with swords and cavalry and using clever tactics and things, and agreeing to these sort of rules of combat and all this sort of thing, like during the revolutionary war, or during the napoleonic wars, war was much less dysgenic. But the sort of total wars that started in World War one continued into World War II, were probably highly, highly dysgenic and led to significant amounts of attrition concentrated among the upper classes. And this was the point he made in his book.</p>

<p>He is alleged to have coined the word dysgenics in there, but the term dysgenics, that book came out in 1915. So while World War one was happening, and the term dysgenics, I actually found an error in Richard Lynn’s book on dysgenics. He claimed that it was Khalid Saleeby who coined the term in 1915. And I did a little research, and I actually found he coined it in an essay on dysgenics and alcohol use, which was published by the temperance society in 1913. So it turns out that the terms coined a little bit earlier.</p>
:ET