I",<p>The theory of spiteful mutants does not match my experience. Leftists are socially active yuppies making six figures. Their views entirely revolve around virtue signaling and wrong think is impolite.</p>

<p>I think that a lot of it, for a lot of leftists, that’s absolutely true, a lot of and of course, these spiteful mutants are not simply leftists. You find them across, peppered across the political spectrum. The argument made is that the vast majority of people just follow elite cues. They just take their cues from the elites, like fashions and talking points and and what television programs they watch, etc. All of these things are sort of handmedowns from the elite. Most people are just sort of followers who just imitate the elite, because that is what we are, an imitative species.</p>

<p>The spiteful mutants are the people who get in charge of elite culture in human populations. These would be the people who come to dominate the elite and come to impose their vision of the good on the masses through the construction of elite culture, which the masses will then align themselves normatively with. So insofar as there might have been certain species of leftist ideology which, have the hallmarks or trappings of being the products of carriers of these these, you know, what we’re calling spiteful mutations, then it’s not so much the case that the, you know, the you need for millions of people to carry these things. You only need a handful of people in very significant social positions to carry these things in order to set a bad example for enough people to follow, that it will actually lead to a general reduction in fitness and a general reduction in sort of group vitality, essentially. Because the argument is that these spiteful mutations are, are degrading the efficiency of mechanisms that are designed to regulate the functioning of groups in intergroup competition.</p>

<p>So can I make another point as well, with in relation to that. So Mr Guidelines says that it is, you know, they’re making six figures, which I assume is a marker of success in America. But we would expect these mutants to come from the higher classes because the inheritability of socioeconomic status across time, between about 1300 and about 1950, according to gregory clark, is about 70 percent. And so this would mean that and the higher classes would have been under darwinian selection for less time. Essentially, they would have been under harsh selection for less time. They were the than the lower classes. And so you’d expect these mutants to come from the higher classes. And so there’s no contradiction between them being mutants and the murdering a lot of money. It doesn’t mean that they’re stupid, that they’re mutants, that they’re incapable of earning a lot of money. They could earn a great deal of money and be virtue signaling and not but, but they but that they have an idea which is damaging to the group</p>

<p>And indeed, they are more likely to be spiteful mutants if they are from a higher social class, because then they would be in a position to be spiteful. If you have a spiteful idea, and you you’re a toilet cleaner, you’re going to have problems, propelling that into the mainstream. If you’re of high social status, it will be easier for you.</p>

<p>So there’s a certain sort of uh position that these genotypes, need to actually occupy in order to be effective in terms of being able to degrade, or reduce the group selected efficiency of the host populations. They, as you say, the carriers of these variants, who who occupy low level, low status positions, might as well be sort of rambling schizophrenics from the point of view of casual observers. But if these people are put into positions of elite culture, or get themselves into positions of elite culture, then their sort of rambling turns into  some profound sort of ideology which forms the basis of how we should organize our value system as a society. And as a consequence, we end up doing things collectively which, you know, which undermine our, which undermine the vitality of our civilization.</p>
:ET