I"%<p>What do you think about sperm donation? Will that raise the iq? Are sperm donors above average Iq?</p>

<p>My understanding is that, yes, uh, when they first, certainly in England, when they first started doing it, it was overwhelmingly, uh, college students. It’s university students who would, who would donate Iq. Donate Iq, they had sperm. And so of course, they were, at that time, in the 70s, above average. 80s, above average Iq, by quite a bit. Now, of course, if they’re still doing the same policy, they won’t, the difference, the above averages of their iq, will be much less because of the widening of of higher education. But my understanding is that sperm donation, is associated with people of higher iq. I’m not sure it will raise Iq. First of all, there are a number of factors involved. If you have to have um in vitro fertilization, there’s all kinds of factors involved there, in terms of a suboptimal environment at the very beginning of life, and all kinds of things like this. Uh, it’s not a particularly widespread thing, so, um, I i wouldn’t have thought it would raise Iq. No, what do you think about that?</p>

<p>Well, it’s interesting, but the the issue really is the degree to which the, uh uh, the women’s choice in terms of sperm is is, is it influenced very heavily by males Educational Attainment? And the the answer that is, well, yes, women do tend to select, they do tend to select for educational attainment over several other traits. The issue is, is it the most important thing? It turns out that we have some data on this, which is currently unpublished. We people in my community who have presented these data, a couple of years ago. I suppose, as its public domain now. The finding, I can report what they found. They did this huge, multiple regression analysis looking at the factors that influence women’s choice of sperm. They found it wasn’t educational attainment so much, and it wasn’t, sort of having a winning personality, or any of that sort of thing, the age of the donor. Basically, if you’re in your own, if you’re over 35 and you’re donating sperm, you have a very low chance of having the sperm selected. The optimum seems to be in the late 20s. That’s what women seem to go for in terms of choice. Now, the chap who presented this findings, it was just this huge beta coefficient. It was massive. It was like an outlying, big effect. Essentially I proposed at the time, the reason why this association exists is probably because women have, in an innate sense, that older men have higher mutation load. So what they’re doing is, by selecting, by being strongly attracted to selecting younger male sperm, what they’re doing is they are trying to, they’re trying to, they’re trying to filter the sperm for mutations, because it’s an honest signal. Male age is an honest signal of mutation load in the gametes. So as a consequence, who’s older, is more likely on, more likely because of a very high correlations, like 0.99 or something, between eternal age and De Novo mutation load. Uh, because of that association, it makes sense that women should just choose younger men if they want, if they want offspring who are going to be less likely to to develop mutation related genetic disorders.</p>

<p>So I can’t find any evidence that they’ve looked into the average iq of sperm donors. Yes, it’s not something, it’s not a literature I know at the top of my head, actually. I’m sorry, I’m surprised by that, because, but I suppose you could argue that if you, if you’re paid for it, that’s one of the reasons that attracted students. But if you’re paid for it, then of course you’re going to expect it to be negatively correlated with Iq. Particularly, if there’s consequences. I mean, now they can in England anyway. They can. They can the the products of these donations have the right to know who their parents are, and they can track you down. There was a, there was a previous period where they did not have that right. So you were paid for it and there were no future consequences. But now you’re paid for it, I think you’ll pay for it, and there are future consequences. So, no, surprisingly, I’m not aware of any, any data on this. So I would conclude that sperm donation is, no, there’s no evidence it’s going to increase iq. I don’t think</p>
:ET