I":<p>Thoughts on davide Pifa attempts to quantify creativity, divergent thinking, i’d and criticisms of those who overemphasize g?</p>

<p>A couple of years ago, David published a paper which, uh, which which got him quite a few, um, citations, in which he criticized very, uh, to measure creativity. And his conclusions, yes, basically, there are no good high validity measures of creativity, but they’re all really rather crappy. Um, yeah, I think that’s more or less, more or less accurate.</p>

<p>So basically, the creativity measures can basically be reduced down to Iq. And it was interesting that in our book, we, when we brought together all of the different um indicators that Iq is going down, there was that study by that korean lady. I forget her name, Kim, she probably was just tapping into the fact that intelligence is the iq is going down. That’s probably all. Intelligence is going down. Whatever she was finding, I think, because I don’t know what they seem to be measuring, but how can you measure creative creativity when creativity is a matter of achievement? So you’re measuring creative potential, creative achievement. I don’t know what you’re measuring. I don’t understand the whole thing at all. It’s what are you measuring?</p>

<p>There’s clearly some difference between creativity and intelligence. And they’re clearly not isomorphic. No um. And this is obvious when you look at the genius phenomenon. This is a point Dean Keith simmons makes, is that having in his really rather excellent 2018 book, which is sort of the genius checklist, you can go through and see how many of these uh things you have essentially in common with various geniuses. And I think there’s about 13 of them in total. He devotes a chapter to each. But in the book, it makes the point, it’s a good point, that Iq is really, very clearly a merely unnecessary. It’s not, in and of itself, a sufficient uh factor by any stretch of imagination for high levels of creative eminence.</p>

<p>Indeed, Luis Alvarez and William Shockley, both of whom went on to win Nobel prizes, which were two low IQ to make it into the Turman sample, which measured people…. It was a prospective, longitudinal study attempting to get out genius. The only two people who would legitimately qualify as geniuses by virtue of having won Nobel prizes didn’t make the cut. They both had Iqs in the sort of 530 so it’s clear that having very high iq is obviously necessary. But there are tons of other things you have to have which combine to give rise to, actual fullfledged genius, including probably some very rare personality and neurological quirks as well, which are very uncommon in the population, and probably deliberately so, because these people have to be rare if they’re under strong group selection, because negative frequency advantages and all this sort of thing.</p>

<p>So I can just expand for our viewers, and we mean, my negative frequency dependence. So that’s when selection favors a population based on the rarity of a trait. So in other words, having small numbers of a particular carrier of a particular genotype benefits the group. So geniuses are a really good example of this, because what they can do is having loads of them running around just pisses everybody off and makes them want to kill them. Eyesink points out that geniuses are usually always persecuted in some form, because people think they’re um. And most of them are. If you actually look at the history of them, they are like Newton. But the the point is that the real advantage to having them around is having them around in small numbers where they’re not numerous enough to warrant being killed. They are, however, they’re common just about enough to be able to really benefit the group. It’s the the optimum, small number of them. That’s, uh, that seems to be helpful.</p>
:ET