I"!<p>Is there a relationship between synaptic pruning and g?</p>

<p>Yes. I think that synaptic pruning is heavily genetically determined. It ultimately determines the final form of your brain’s neural archycytotectomics. And the basically that final form is what functions as the sort of limiting factor on how intelligent you can be, I how the brain ultimately gets put together. So you can think of if the pruning itself is highly genetically determined in terms of what dies at what time to give rise to what particular remnant neural architecture, then yes, there will be a strong relationship, very strong in fact.</p>

<p>So it certainly is. When you would you eliminate unnecessary connections in the brain, is that right through. Wes, a lot of people think of the brain completely wrongly. A lot of people think of the brain as basically a kind of a bundle of, it starts off as a bundle of unconnected things, and then things magically start, new connections start forming. Well, that’s not how the brain works. The brain starts off with tons and tons and tons of connections. Most of those connections are surplus to requirements. Most of those connections lead to illogical and unconfused combinations of sensory inputs. For example, babies and even very young children that have Synesthesia, up until a certain point, because there are redundant connections between the different parts of the brain which are responsible for connecting from sensory, uh regions with different sort of perceptual perceptions of sensations. And those parts prune away, which leads to more of a sort of modular, modularized architecture of the brain, which leads to discrimination between the senses. And also, it increases the sort of efficiency of which the brain can process information, because you get a large number of enrollment connections being replaced with small numbers of highly relevant connections, which generally increase the efficiency you can handle information, which is why Iq rises with age as well. And then it declines again as neurons start to start to die.</p>
:ET