I"Z<p>What is your opinion on the work of David Graber, most importantly, his book debt, first five thousand years? David Graber?</p>

<p>David Graber was the person, he signed the Noah Carl and, you know, a carl thing, didn’t he? He was like something like first, the third signatory on the anti Noah Carl petition. I would say that David Gravel was almost certainly an antiscientist who is opposed to empirical research, who takes, his dogmas and attempts to, uh use the veneer of science or of academia in order to, you know, to sway people off them. And that’s what that would scream at me. Um, and but from what I know of him as well, I think his supervisor was his doctor supervisor. I remember looking into him at the time, was marshall silence. Who, I mean, this is just contemporary anthropology, these kinds of people. So this is going to be postmodernism, postmodern anthropology. Anthropology as a, as a political act rather than as something scientific. So what do I think of him? I hold him and his, uh, his research and utter contempt.</p>

<p>Actually, I have a more nuanced view on him than you. Um, I i think obviously he’s, you know, he’s a lefty [ _ _ ]. And what he did, that’s very neutral. And that’s my opinion, i’ll make it clear, that’s my opinion that he is an [ _ _ ]. But he is, as far as I am concerned, that is my opinion, for doing what he did. To know, it was an act of cowardice, and it was an act of intellectual intimidation, of bullying, and is inimical to the spirit of intellectual discourse. But what I will say is, I actually liked his book, Bullshit jobs. And what I liked it a lot.</p>

<p>And one of the things I’m noticing that’s quite interesting is there’s a certain element on the left who was starting to notice things in terms of the, uh, the issue of how globalism essentially disembeds individuals from any meaningful or organic set of economic interrelations through what David Starkey calls the reduction of life to mere money relations.</p>

<p>And the interesting thing about graber is, I think his position on this is quite sound. And he’s an anarchist, and obviously, for him jobs and economic employment and all this sort of thing is just serving capital, and that’s why it’s unethical. Essentially. It’s bad because it reduces, it sort of destroys basic freedoms that come from essentially having ownership of the means of production, being able to control and do with it as you please. But the idea that he sort of glommed onto that most of these jobs are just bullshit jobs, to use his term, and are basically just exercised exercises in sort of bean counting. And, they don’t give life any dignity or meaning, and that they’re actually soulcrushing, and they’re bad. And, and the fact that the jobs are are meaningless, and that you are made to participate in them in order to gain, in order to generate a living, is, is even worse. It makes it even worse, essentially.</p>

<p>And I think he’s, he’s right about that, although his, his critique, being of a leftist critique, is obviously flawed. The correct critique of Bullshit jobs is that they, they, they, they disembed you from natural, traditional, organic relations that put you into sort of communion with members of your, you know, local community. And it’s those traditional relations which were the basis of of distributors, sort of basic economic systems that built the west. And the breaking up of those basic, sort of local scale economies, which were organic and selforganizing and selfregulating, is what has essentially robbed economic activity of any, you know, of any meaningfulness, essentially. So, so I kind of agree with Graber, except we’re approaching the question from completely different orientations, right?</p>

<p>Okay, but, but isn’t there an extent to which industrial jobs, working in a cotton mill in 1850, or as as meaningless and crap as these Bullshit jobs now. And what’s he saying that’s original? What’s the difference between what he’s saying, what George Orwell was saying? I think what he’s focusing on is is the proliferation of so of of various jobs, which, within the context of mature, globalized techno economies to use Seymour Itscouffs term amount to little more than being essentially some redundant feature of a system that already has a lot of redundancy built into it, in terms of having a lot of duplication among individuals who are basically made to do the same job. There’s no real, there’s no real, uh value in the job. You’re not really doing anything useful or essential to the functioning of a company. You’re, you’re basically just on the payroll doing so I shall have a look.</p>

<p>The other thing is, what you’re actually doing, what you’re producing, is not tangible. What you could say is a key difference between, say, an office job versus a factory job. Is within a factory, or actually making something, right? There’s a tangible aspect to what you’re doing. You’re bringing something into being. And there’s a certain sort of dignity in that, right? Even if it’s a silly thing like making widgets, you’re actually responsible for the generation of something physical and tangible. Yeah. And there’s a certain pride that one can take in that. Whereas in the case of a sort of corporate office job within, within within the city, there is no, you’re, what you’re doing has no relation to what it is that’s actually being produced. You have no sort of connection to what it is you’re doing. Therefore, therefore, that decoupling alienates you. And I hate to use these marks as terms, if there’s a certain validity to it, it alienates you from it.</p>

<p>Can I have a question? So I know various people who I suppose fairly pathetic, who, dropped out of their degrees, things like this. And then, you know, ended up lying and saying they had a degree, and then, but to get these kinds of jobs. And and they’d tell, they tell me that they, they work maybe 20 minutes a day. There’s very little work to do. And the rest of the day they’re trying to make themselves look busy, to preserve the job. But, but there’s actually nothing to do. So it’s quite soul destroying in that way as well. So I’m glad that my only experience of ever doing a job like that is eight weeks when I was 18 years old, when a friend from the conservative association, who was a director of the War Bank of Scotland, created such a job for me. And it was very, very dull um. But I shall take a look into this guy, but I know, I just, I put off him by his behavior towards noah carl. That’s it as well, obviously.</p>

<p>That behavior is reprehensible as far as I’m concerned.</p>
:ET