I"#<p>It is decreasingly the case that you get into Oxford or cambridge because you’re clever.</p>

<p>Oxford and cambridge, if they carry on on their current woke path, will no longer be the best universities in the Uk. The light of civil of academic civilization will just move to somewhere else.</p>

<p>A very similar thing happened to France in the 1960s with the Sorbonne. Yes, you mentioned it, and your mother essentially, they essentially abolished any semblance of selectivity at the sorbonne or any of the other elite Paris universities. Remember bureaucrats just created their own elite universities, these enss, or whatever they’re called, and that turned them into a separate system where they basically became a breeding ground or training ground for french technocrats. And that’s the new elite system. And that arose after the 1960s. So it’s, basically oxbridge. And presumably, but you know, the better colleges at the University of London will end up going the way of the sorbonne and the University of Paris system that will just degenerate into a kind of nothing, freeforall, something that rewards all the wrong sort of traits.</p>

<p>What will happen is more and more smart and enterprising young brits will go to the Ivy league, and they’ll go off to the states, and they’ll actually go to selected colleges, and they will get proper educations over there. There you go. And this is being even, this is being interfered with those. So then there’ll be some other factor. But, I mean, one thing that is noticeable, is that, when I was a child, almost everybody that was in the cabinet, in the conservative government, if they had been to university, had been to oxford or cambridge? In terms of prime ministers, overwhelmingly oxford. Have we even had a prime minister where that’s been the case?</p>

<p>John Major was a cambridge graduate? No, no. John Major didn’t go to university. Absolutely not. He dropped out of school with three o levels. Really? We’ve had this discussion before. You don’t listen. John Major, look him up. John Major did not go to university. He notoriously dropped out of school with three o levels and tried to become a bus conductor and didn’t get the job because of his bad handwriting. That’s John Major. And he when he was foreign secretary or something. He said to his driver, I think you and I are the only people that work here that haven’t been to oxford or cambridge. Haven’t been to university? So, John Mage didn’t go to university. Jim Callahan didn’t go to university. Churchill didn’t go to university. And churchill went to sandhurst military college. Yes. The only, I think, Steve Stanley Baldwin went to cambridge. And I think that’s, that’s basically it.</p>

<p>Anyway, the point I wanted to make is that we notice now, in used to be that all the people that have been to uni, in conservative government have been university of Oxford, cambridge. And in labor you’d get some variation because of northerners and trade unions and stuff like this. And now look at the university diversity, if that’s a word of the current conservative government. Now, is that because, the government people are getting stupider? No, it’s not. It’s because Oxford and cambridge is actually losing their, their stranglehold on things. And so you’ve got a home secretary that went to, I think, Bristol was it. And you’ve got a chancellor that went to exeter, and so on. So Prime Minister went to oxford. Uh, foreign secretary, I can’t remember anything he went to. So it’s changing. That’s the thing, these leftists, they think the Oxford and cambridge, oh, let’s get lots of people who are poor or who are foreign into Oxford or cambridge. They don’t understand that it’s not prestige isn’t inherent in something. They think in this kind of religious way.</p>
:ET