I"E
<p>Can extreme ethnocentrism replace religion regarding birth rate? If people know how important it is to spread their genes to keep the race alive, maybe they will see having children as a duty to the ethno?</p>

<p>well, when this presumably relates to to, to, again, to sort of religion, and and and so on, the the the um um beyond ism really isn’t. I mean, you have to have something that it’s just.</p>

<p>It goes back Gaulton in 1904, who wrote an essay called, Can’t Say Where. Can’t say where. It was a pun, right? Kant say where, deontological ethics, he’s a clever man. But the idea of can’t say where, was a hypothetical sort of platonic republic, essentially, in which you had eugenic religion, in which people were made aware of their they, you know, the idea of eugenic sort of purpose and breeding was tied in with religious missives concerning the, you know, the idea that God commands you to, you know, to keep your gene, gene pool at a certain quality level, etc. Clean. And he sort of suggested that, yes, you’d need a, you need a eugenics to sort of sub substitute. You need a eugenic substitute for religion. And curtail, of course, took this very seriously when he developed beyondism, which was the idea of a scientifically informed ethical system derived uh, which would take on the form of a religion that would basically promote group selection and would promote cooperative competition among groups as well to try and sort of counteract more negative aspects of group selection, and would try to maintain the ecological conditions that are maximally conducive to group selection. But the problem is, it won’t really work, because we never really evolved culturally to be beyond us, right? We did evolve, coevolve culturally and genetically with christianity, however. So essentially that is our biocultural bag, right? That’s what we do. That is, that is the religion becomes most naturally to westerners is some, something akin to christianity. So why not take Bruce Charlton’s option, which is geno’s spirituality? He proposed in a paper in 2009 that we should actually engineer people to be more spiritual genetically in other words, you elevate people’s religiousness using genetic engineering, then you solve a lot of the problems with group selection and eugenics, because you actually make people innately more group selected, and therefore innately less likely to misuse or abuse. 2009 medical hypothesis, it was called engineering for geno spirituality. A typical childhood thing, a lot of noise, and all of a sudden he comes up with bloody brilliant idea, right?</p>
:ET