I"	<p>How do you respond to dawkins and Jf Gary Eppie’s criticism of group selection? Wouldn’t natural selection favor cheaters within the group?</p>

<p>Well, it does, but also group selection disfavors cheaters. The way this works is because groups don’t just exist as these vulnerable, sort of haystacks, right? Groups have all sorts of internal regulatory processes which control the proliferation of free riding behavior. So d.s. Wilson talks about religion, which is probably the most well studied example of a group selected cultural adaptation, and he basically shows that the, uh, uh, if you’re looking at a group which is uh, under strong group selection, it’ll have things like, you know, disincentives for free riding.</p>

<p>So religious people make a virtue out of identifying free riding behaviors and stamping them out. All the things which are considered sinful or bad within a religious context to things which can broadly be looked at as free riding, like a sexual license, for example, or Gluttony, or, you know, a sort of excessive still of interest, etc. And these are these divided into antivirtues, essentially, and are policed. And that’s how the group controls free writing. So the sort of dawkins and JF, who’s also a critic of group section these two basically just don’t understand enough about group selections to really have a wellformed opinion on it, by the sound of it. And they, they’re in a minority position as well as actually, cultural group selection, at least, is now a very much of a majority position among younger, evolutionarily informed life scientists, people are, people are really starting to push hard on group selection. The whole gene selection thing is just falling apart. So go with it, guys.</p>

<p>Also, I should add that from computer models, we know, yes, it is true that these cheaters are going to benefit themselves. But when you put in battle groups which are highly group selected and groups which have more cheaters in then it is the group that has more cheese in that are destroyed. So ultimately, a group will produce cheetahs, and they, and they will undermine the group. And the more and the less that group regulates those cheaters and removes those cheaters, the more likely that group is to be wiped out. Is that fair enough?</p>
:ET