I"<p>There was no friend zone prior to the welfare state?</p>

<p>The term basically refers to individuals women, you know, women who who the argument is that women go for these alpha type, chad people, right? They use them for sex and but they want the beta providers around them. So they want these presumably slower life history individuals to provide for them and to, you know, give them, give them resources and things. So what they do is they erect these barriers between themselves and the beaters such that they keep the barriers in orbit around them, right? But they never let them, they never let them have access to their, you know, they never let them have access to sex, but they keep them in orbit around them. And that’s called the friend zone essentially about that. Perhaps one manifestation of the phenomena is is is that where they’re kept in this zone of perpetual friendship, and they’re never allowed closer, the relationship is never allowed to sort of progress, because they they have an endless supply of alpha males to provide for them sexually</p>

<p>He’s saying that the pride of the welfare state then, you you didn’t have this problem. Did these sexual dynamics that characterize the modern mating market, exist prior to the welfare state. What I suppose Stefan is arguing there, is that, there’s another theory which has come out of the man atmosphere, which is that women use welfarism as a surrogate provider. So in a sense, women are married to the state, and they get everything they need from the states. They don’t actually need men to fulfill that provider role. So what this means is that the women have been free to focus their efforts on hypergamy for physical attractiveness, indication independence of high T et cetera, masculine type, alpha type traits. And this sort of disenfranchises, uh, this disenfranchises these socalled beta males, who would you know, who can’t get access to sexual resources. And they’re no longer valid. They’re no longer useful as providers. So they’re kept at a distance, kept in this friend zone. Essentially see a surrogate husband effect</p>

<p>Why would that mean that prior to the welfare state, that that situation wasn’t there? Well, it means that basically, provider males males slower life histories, and who are providers in the sense of being able to secure resources over long periods of time. Well, those males would probably also be more attractive to women, because, right? Women couldn’t have gotten their security from the states. Okay, well, I do, I wouldn’t agree with that, because there is some evidence that, as I looked at in my study of the finns, that females are acting in a hypergamous sexual selection way on even factors like nationality. In modern environments, in Finland, which has a massive welfare state. So that that would imply that there’s an inbuilt desire for a high status male. They find high status males attractive. They marry high state as males that the welfare hasn’t in some way interfered with their desires.</p>

<p>And I’d actually say, although I have articulated the model as I understand it, based on my exposure to, you know, people like chateau artiste and others who sort of talked about this on their websites the model is wrong. And I think it’s wrong, not just the excellent reasons that you made regarding nationality and things. But I think that the, the data on K and fertility clearly militates against this model having had a real effect on mating outcomes. Because we know that k strongly and robustly, across different populations, predicts fertility. And we also know that control for Iq income is positively associated with numbers of children, probably because income, net of Iq correlates with slow life histories. It’s yet another manifestation of slow life history. So essentially, it appears that provider males, even if women’s, even if it’s true that women are are interested in mating, at least in the short term with chadley r strategists. The reality is that they don’t end up producing children with them.</p>

<p>A lot of these people are involved in this manusphere just seem to be men that don’t seem to understand that if you go for a woman who’s a tart, then she’s a tart. And she’ll behave like a tart. So they say things like, oh, this woman knows she’s divorced me, and she had an affair.</p>

<p>Did you meet her at church? No, well, then why did you think that that wouldn’t happen? It was an interesting, you were going for a fast life history strategist woman and she dumped you. Well, La Dee Da, why are you shocked? It’s extraordinary.</p>

<p>There’s an interesting, uh, observation i’d like to make, actually, concerning some data that is currently unpublished. The data show, basically, you can think of it as a test of whether pickup artistry works. And it turns out it doesn’t. And the reason we know this is because in this particular analysis, particular study, what happened was they got a bunch of guys to interact with women in an online, virtual environment where the only information that could transmit from person to person, from man to woman was textual. So in other words, this was like, like an instant messaging thing. And these student guys were talking to these student women. And these these student guys were actually given vignettes. They were, they were asked to they were asked to sort of affect charisma and confidence in interacting with these women. And the women were asked to rate the men based on authenticity. And the women were able to tell every single guy who was faking it just from the text, just from the text. They didn’t need to see the guy. They didn’t need to hear the guy. Women are really, really good at picking up bullsh*t. So why do you mention those circumstances?</p>

<p>Women are not choosing males on the basis of the bullshit. They’re choosing the males on the basis of their bravado and moxie. That’s what they’re doing. They’re selecting male. But women are going in their heads, this is ridiculous. This guy is absolutely putting it on, but he’s really attractive, or he’s really good looking, or he’s got some other aspect of his personality that I like. So therefore that is what I’m going to select. Or I like his, his the fact he’s got the temerity to do this. I think that’s what the women are selecting.</p>
:ET