I"-<p>I work for the nhs in the Uk, and I see a huge representation of individuals with lower intelligence, fast light history, strategy and low gfp. Okay, with population health further declining, will this eventually topple the nhs?</p>

<p>Yeah. I mean, the the nhs was founded at a time when it couldn’t really do very much. I mean, they interviewed, 20 years ago now, doctors that qualified before there was an nhs, and it was basically placebo. I mean, you’d go to the doctor and he couldn’t really do anything, and he’d have a jar with blue pills and a jar with red pills. And he prescribed what is literally true, and he prescribed one or the other. And they expected to have a red or a blue pill. That’s those were the colors. I’m not joking. I remember listening to this interview, and he and and they would expect one or the other. It was a placebo. It basically said it was basically sugar. So there wasn’t really much they could do. And so it was all free, because it wasn’t very expensive, because they couldn’t really do very much.</p>

<p>And increasingly we’ve had this situation where it is free at the point of delivery in Britain, and they can do more and more, and it’s extremely expensive. And so they’ve done little tinkerings like making you preprescription charges. But I would think it’s just unsustainable. And also, people are very, very unhealthy people. Of people are overweight and have diabetes and, rising mutational load.</p>

<p>I imagine, if you had too many of those sugar pills, you probably would get diabetes. You probably would. Yeah, and so and so it seems to me an unworkable system. And intelligence is going down, the doctors will be becoming stupider. The nurses will be becoming stupider. So I would think if at some point it will just crash. I mean, I remember 20 years ago, it was unthinkable, unthinkable for waiting times at a and e to be longer than three hours. That it was in the news. Good God, threehour waiting times. What’s happening to our country? Now four hour waiting times? That’s the length of like, like Wrestlemania four um, which was a particularly long wrestlemania. Um, well, I’m a normative. It’s insane. Why do I let it live there? But where I live in finland, you got ta pay, you pay up front see a doctor. So, you know, so that put that relieves some pressure.</p>

<p>Well, I mean, yes, the nhs is has many problems, immigration being the biggest one. That’s the major reason why the uh, more and more money needs to be put into the nhs. And a lesser problem, but also somewhat significant problem, is the aging population, um, which is why the nhs is is kind of not really a it’s not really going to be sustainable in the long run. That’s one of those two factors. Both of those factors are addressed.</p>

<p>The nhs was sustainable in a context of a basically ethnostate, which is what Britain pretty much was in 1947, or whenever it was established and and also in the wake of war, where people felt very bonded to each other, and all this because of the war on both those factors have gone. And so what you would expect is for the nhs to eventually fall apart on that basis alone. But it’s this kind of taboo in England to suggest…, for example, in Finland, if you make a doctor’s appointment and you don’t turn up, so you waste their time, you get fined 50 euros. In England, if you make a doctor’s appointment and don’t turn up, as I understand it, nothing happens. So that would be one thing they should do, but find you 50 euros for wasting nhs time, but they don’t, or 50 pounds, whatever.</p>
:ET