I"8<p>Can you increase the intelligence variance by increasing a source of mating?</p>

<p>The answer to that is, yes, you can. But in practice, the assaultative mating is not yielding offspring. So it’s not in practice.</p>

<p>So without that’s weird there, isn’t it? Because I would have thought the source of mating was associated more with a k strategy, wouldn’t it be?</p>

<p>It is associated with higher K strategy. And indeed, people with higher K, higher levels of k, actually do assaultatively mate to a greater extent than people lower levels. Why isn’t the sort of information doing this? That is weird. Well, assaulted mating is not, it doesn’t seem to be the case that… I mean, for a start, if we look at a different thing, which is the level of assorted mating is a function of level of Iq, the data indicate either there is no association with level of iq, or conversely, there’s a negative association. And actually, I know from the Minnesota multiphasic twins data set, there’s one unpublished study that shows, it’s been presented a couple of times, but to my knowledge, it is currently unpublished, which shows that actually there’s more assaultative mating among those with lower iq and higher iq. And part of a reason for this might be due to a phenomenon that Aj Figueredo refers to as the genetic dregs hypothesis. Now, let me, let me qualify the use of the term dregs okay. Dregs, in this sense, refers to the, sort of these substances which accumulate at the bottom of barrels of wine. That’s what a dreg is, right? It’s all the sort of high specific gravity particulates that flocculate and sort of agglutinate and form like this rhyme at the bottom of the barrel that has to be sort of scraped out. That’s what a dreg is. So our theory is that there’s a kind of involuntary assaultative mating among people with very low system integrity, you know, very low mate desirability. In other words, they can’t be hypergamous. They they just have, the main quality of a mating sort of desirability is too low. So they’re forced into a kind of involuentary assortative mating.</p>

<p>These are the kind of people that would stay in the same area.</p>

<p>Yeah, that’s right. Low mobility, both socially and geographical. So these would be people who who are, very unfortunate people, basically, who can not get high quality mates. So this theory of genetic drugs actually came out an article in the psychological inquiry, which is one of the top psychology journals, which proposed this idea that the certain classes of traits, and intelligence is probably one of them, you get this, you get this forced assaultative mating among those with low levels of the traits. And that this in turn leads to a kind of, you know, a situation in which the levels of assaulted mating will appear to be higher, even though it’s not something that’s being actively sought out. Whereas with your high k strategists, you’re dealing with people who are actively seeking out high levels of genetic similarity among their prospective partners, so their assorted mating is voluntary.</p>
:ET