I":
<p>Harsh and stable ecology leads to k strategy and civ.</p>

<p>But talking about dimensions of environmental risk. So an environment that he’s saying harsh and stable, that’s not true. It’s predictability and harshness are the two dimension. They’re different, but different things. So if you have predictable harshness, like seasons, for example, you can actually prepare for seasonality. And that promotes high k traits like impulse control, planning, insight, that sort of thing, right? And, that does tend to lead to civilization.</p>

<p>But is Jd Unwind’s sex and culture theory a possible cheat code? Why civilization in temperate north european and med, I don’t understand it when people use acronyms or shortened words. So I’m going to hand this over. Is Jd Unwins sex and culture theory? By the way, this is that as cultures become more developed, I know Jd Unwin’s Book, I have a copy from the 1920s. Well, that’s very well done, because it was probably published in 1934. It must be like a manuscript anyway. So it’s a rare, rare, very rare to get hold of an original copy of Bandwidth. It’s very difficult. I’m a bibliophile. I like to get hold of, rare books if I can.</p>

<p>Unwin’s idea is, can boil down to the role of, controlled, the control of female sociosexuality, and the importance of that in maintaining a certain level of civilization. And there are still a couple of relevant points that female centric power structures, which you do get in some, some, uh, minority of huntergatherer and horticulture type groups. So typically when huntergatherer groups decide to become a little more sedentary and develop horticulture, they become mature, local and you get these maternal, um, female power tends to consolidate with women, which is unusual. It’s very rare, very few civilizations that are at this stage. They tend not to get much further than that. Um, the uh, the uh.</p>

<p>So civilization seems to go hand in hand with with particularly male regulation female sociosexuality. And obviously there’s tons and tons and tons of examples of this. But it’s obviously a necessary, but not sufficient criteria for the growth of civilization. There’s plenty of examples of groups in which you have, you have, even today, very, very, very strict control of female sociosexuality, and they, they don’t even approach anything like civilization. So, a lot of uncivilized groups in the Middle East, for example. So there’s obviously other things that are needed as well. So his, his is a sort of partial description of the prerequisites of civilization.</p>
:ET