I"><p>The Myersbriggs inventory is not particularly well regarded as a personality measure, largely because it sort of uses forced choice responding. The technical term is ipsitized. And it’s also used as a kind of binary response, yes or no, rather than a particular level of something, which gives rise to weird sort of artifacts in the data that reduce the interpretability of the resultant factors.</p>

<p>And as for these sort of archetypes that that people try to pull out of it, like introverted. And there’s these, like, four different factors or something, which are meant to be archetypes of personality. I don’t think they have much in the way of criteria on validity.</p>

<p>I did find a gfp in the Myersbriggs inventory on one occasion, but it has very serious meaning given the aforementioned, nature of the gfp</p>

<p>Jung had many interesting thoughts in terms of personality psychology. His archetype of the self is something i’ve written about, and don’t worry, I’m not going all Jordan Peterson here, but I have actually written about this in a book chapter, which was published by Cambridge University press, in a book on the evolutionary psychology. It was a book chapter on the evolution of a general factor of personality. And I was looking back historically at various researchers in personality who predated modern personality theory. So people like Galen with his humoral balance theory, and freud with his, you know, his models of of the ego and the superego and the Id. And, Jung, who had the archetypal theory. And I looked at these and I saw in these theories would be sort of folkish gfp notions. So in the case of Jung, there was this idea of a self archetype, which is kind of the archetype through which you process all other archetypes. So it’s sort of the general factor of archetypeness essentially. And I argued that this was a kind of, this was a kind of organizing or coherence inducing principle among his archetypes, which was somewhat similar to the social efficacy facets of the gfp, essentially.</p>

<p>I like looking at historical theories and seeing what people might have gotten right. Because often when you see in a historical theory elements of a modern theory, or you’re seeing something that is transcendent, you’re seeing a sort of broader principle which transcends time, and you’re looking at a bigger truth. I actually was a coauthor on a book on life history as a meta theory for the social sciences. Social sciences. We look at a dozen or so historical social scientists, and we sort of weave together in the book by narrative a model of life history which incorporates all of their ideas, showing that in many important respects, they had anticipated key aspects of life history theory as applied to humans. So I kind of have a professional sideline of doing this sort of historical analysis.</p>
:ET