I"+<p>And so it occurred to me that perhaps the explanation for architecture being so awful these days, which people like Paul Joseph Watson and whatever have done a lot of videos on, could be related to this. Could be the fact that the the elites are not disgusted by these unattractive buildings which they put up. Because it strikes me that since the, I suppose since the 40s, that was the last time architecture, in my view, looked quite nice, some of these art deco buildings. And then since then, it’s either mock tudor or whatever, which is awful, or it’s ugly. I don’t know, Michael, do you have, what do you think about the modern architecture? There just seems to be this just race to put up things that are hideous.</p>

<p>Yeah, so I think one can describe architecture nothing more than a worship of ugliness and hideousness. And this is probably best personified by the source of architecture went into the construction of things like the UN Center in New York and world trade center and buildings like that, the sort of nasty brutalist concrete, millioning of windows, that sort of thing. Now, I’m not not overly keen on that sort of architecture at all.</p>

<p>Actually, one of the few sort of very, very positive things that the royal family have done is to basically lobby very, very hard for the preservation of historic architecture in London, and also the imposition of height limits on buildings. So thanks largely to the activism of Prince Charles, we don’t have buildings anywhere near the center of London which are above a certain height. So you’ll notice, if you look at the skyline of London, but there are, there really aren’t very many skyscrapers. You will see things like the gherkin. And if you go into canary war from the north of London, you’ll see big buildings and things, the canary wharf tower, of course, being a famous example. But if you go, the closer you get to the sort of center of London, the more buildings are sort of low and old and nice.</p>

<p>The worst one is that, what’s that building that’s on Oxford Street, Tottenham court road. It’s called center point or something. And it’s just the old one. There’s, you know, there’s the odd building here and there which has somehow escaped the restrictions. But generally speaking, London skyline has not been ruined too hideously by gigantic, ugly, modern buildings.</p>

<p>No, but a lot of  places have. And the worst thing they do here, which shows their complete inability to understand the importance of nice buildings, is recently, in Oulu, they’ve mod they’ve got this old railway station. Most of it was just hideous, 1960s or newer, ugly buildings, most of the centre of oulu, and there’s a few nice, old wooden buildings left. And one of these was by the railway station. And so they decided to that they wanted to build some hideous, ugly, unnecessarily tall blocks of flats by the railway station. And so they literally got this late 19th century railway station wooden building, and just took it down. And their tendency is to take these old wooden buildings, if they’re getting in the way, and stick them on an island somewhere, so you can and there is actually an island of Oulu called Sari, which is just full of old buildings that they’ve removed there from other places because they’re inconvenient and they get in the way and they’re not functional.</p>

<p>So it means that on every if you want to have niceness, you can go to an island, but in your everyday life, you have to be exposed to these ugly buildings. I don’t think they, if they, it doesn’t even occur to them that they’re ugly. And it destroys the soul to live so and makes you depressed to live surrounded by things that are disgusting. I don’t know why it doesn’t cross their mind. I think Roger Scrutin had some excellent ideas on this, that beauty should be a factor taken into account by town planners.</p>

<p>Prior to his death, was he not positioned within the government in such a advisory capacity, yes. But did they take his advice particularly seriously? Because the I haven’t seen any, any particularly nice buildings put up recently. And when they do put up buildings in this sort of mock tudor sort of mock 18th century, whatever it is style they put, they they build houses in these days, often they have no gardens which is another thing. It’s the importance of being around natural beauty. And they don’t seem to bother with gardens anymore. It’s just a place to park your car, your front garden. So they’re unpleasant.</p>

<p>So do you think it would be part of the more general trend of sort of almost dysgenics and social epistasis and whatever, to have, to have people that get into positions of power and think ugliness is good and and therefore kind of depress and demoralize the population by altering their living space to make it hideous.</p>

<p>It’s entirely likely that that a sense of aesthetics is very strongly correlated with groupish tendencies and a belief that the group must be made sort of, everything that’s good about the group, including its religion and its aspirations as a culture and its sort of manifest destiny is, is embodied in the architecture of historical epochs, particularly imperial epochs. But under the current regime, it’s nothing like that. There’s actually a good example of this in America, in penn station. Those of you who are native to New York City, if you’ve ever visited New York, and you’ve ever visited penn station, which is a major metropolitan hub, essentially a train station in the center of New York City, that is, you can see these absolutely astonishing work of architecture, just really sort of epitomizing american imperial aspirations in the 1900s when when they started work on that train station. But now it’s, it’s just degenerated. If you look at modern train stations in America, that they’re absolutely hideous by comparison.</p>

<p>The first time I went to waterloo and became aware of these things, I remember thinking, was waterloo station, which, for our foreign viewers, in the centre of London, was waterloo station built as a railway station? Or did it start off life as some sort of 19th century housing project that got turned into a railway station? Because you look around, there’s all these high windows and ornate things and whatever. But it made me think, I wonder if this used to be something I would have used something else. But no, it was just built to be beautiful. Now, a decade ago or a bit less, they renovated waterloo station and covered up a lot of the beautiful things just to be, just to make you feel unhappy. But equally with a lot of the older railway stations in central London, I think, showering crosses, the various other ones, you have the same thing. You have these beautiful interiors these railway stations, and the railway stations themselves are made to look beautiful. And then you go outside, and of course, it’s, it’s concrete and general unpleasantness.</p>

<p>I think it would be another example of them, of a sort of spiteful mutant architects, basically, just like have spiteful mutant poets or or playwrights, who would use architecture as their chosen means to just do everybody down, and manage to persuade people that it’s a sign of intellectual sophistication to like buildings that are. Well, it was in the brutalist period, they were at least symmetrical, which is at least pleasing in a sort of very simple way. But now I find with the buildings they’re putting up now, these these blocks are flat. They’re not even symmetrical. They’re sort of Zig Zaggy, which I find even more appalling. But they presumably like it like that.</p>

<p>What was it you said about aestheticism? Aestheticism correlates with group, with being group selected. Is that right? I would expect so. Well, what are there any? No particularly interesting correlates of aestheticism that would be consistent with us having with dysgenitics causing a breakdown in aestheticism. I don’t think it would be a dysgenic effect per se. It would be more a broader thing, like a sort of collapse of intergroup competition. And why would intergroup competition elevate aesthetics? Well, because it’s just associated with groupishness. Well, aesthetics is a way of inspiring other members of a group to be proud of the group, I guess.</p>

<p>What’s the ugliest building you’ve ever seen? Fitzwilliam College, cambridge. I’ve not seen that that’s not been imposed upon me. And and the nicest building, horrible. They should tear it down. It’s just disgusting looking thing. I’d be ashamed to say I was a cambridge man if I was forced to go to that college. The nicest building? Sutton place in the north of Guildford, which is a prodigy, one of only a handful of Prodigy era, uh, early 16th century architectural masterpieces in existence, currently in private hands. Was was that the place where one of the people that had an affair with Anne Berlin, or possibly Catherine Howard, live? That’s right. It was a westerns. Sir Richard Weston was the one who founded it. He was given permission to construct the estate in the early, early 16th century. And yes, he had an affair, or his son had an affair with Anne Berlin. And, all hell broke loose fence. And it’s interesting, westerns held on to the place until the 1900s. And then it was sold to uh Lord Newport. I think it was newport. And then it became property of the duke of portland, who described it as being just about adequate for for a duke. It’s a 55 000 square foot building. And then then it was owned by John Paul Getty, who owned it until the 1970s. Then a guy called Stanley Sega, who was another emerit wealthy American. Then one of the koch brothers owned it. One of the lesser cokes that nobody’s ever heard of, like one of the, know, lower ranked cokes. And then it was sold in 2005 to a guy called Alice usmanov, who’s most famous for having been the man who bought Jim Watson’s Nobel Prize back off of him and then giving it back to him. Remember when watson had to sell his nobel prize. So he gets, uh, he gets brownie points for having done that. From what i’ve heard is, actually, he’s done a jolly good job with the interior. And, yeah, he hasn’t had, he hasn’t had the dining room in the sitting room knocked through to make one big room.</p>

<p>Hever castle. Yes, I would agree. Hever Castle is jolly nice. Leeds castle, this jolly nice. I think i’d have to agree with the people that voted for the british people voted, and I think it was about 2010, and they said the nicest building was durham cathedral. And, having spent quite a lot of time in durham cathedral, because it’s where the theology library is, I can concur both internally and externally, Durham cathedral is jolly nice. So we need to build more things like durham cathedral, I think, and and less things like the shard, which is asymmetrical, and that’s bad.</p>
:ET