I"Y<p>Are genocides dysgenic?</p>

<p>Depends on who’s being genocided, as is the short answer. And it also depends on what, depends on being very, very careful in defining terms like dysgenic and eugenic. These terms have been used to describe group selection. And when you have groups, so that when you have behaviors which benefit a group, those behaviors are eugenic. When you have benefits which are harmful to a group, those behaviors are dysgenic. So certainly, from a point of view of the group, any group that is in the process of being eliminated through genocide, that is highly dysgenic from your perspective, right from the perspective of your group. If, for example, we would have a population of China come over to Britain and kill every single Englishman, that would be a very bad thing for Englishman. It would destroy the group fitness of Englishmen. But it might boost the group fitness of the Chinese, because, in this example, they might be able to then move in and take over where the English were and set up a Chinese permanent colony in England. And in so doing, they might boost their group level fitness. So from their perspective, because of the territory gain and the fact they’ve removed a competitor group of approximately equivalent ability, it’s eugenic from their standpoint.</p>

<p>But these concepts can not be taken to mean good or bad, and I don’t think either of us condone genocide of any sort under any conditions. And I for one, categorically say it’s a bad thing, irrespective of what it ends up doing to the gene frequencies of the groups involved. So so that is the technical answer to the question, and the moral answer, genocide is bad. Don’t do it.</p>

<p>Richard argues, and I’m sure he’d agree, that genocide is bad, don’t do it. But Richard Lynn argues in his book, the chosen people, that basically the whole of the genocide elevated jewish iq. So the reason why ashkenazi jewish Iq, as opposed to the iq ofV, the ingraham and the other jewish groups, is so much higher than that of the europeans among whom they came um, is because of pogroms and then because of the holocaust. He argues that it would have been the more intelligent people in the holocaust who would have seen ahead, looked ahead, planned for the future, made plans, got the hell out of Germany, got the hell out of Poland, got the hell out of western Europe, gone to America. And so it elevated the iq of the ashkenazi Jews in that sense. I suppose you could argue it’s although it’s appalling, obviously.</p>

<p>I mean, lynn has a more, general, sort of iq driven replacement model, which is based on the idea. His idea is basically that high iq populations tend to conquer and replace lower Iq ones. This is an idea he put forward in his 2006 version of race evolution and behavior. And it’s actually not a bad model in terms of data we have. There’s a large quantity of ancient greek genomes going back to the neolithic. And one of the things they’ve been able to do in the analysis is to compute a polygenic score for Iq using causal variance, which is pretty pretty neat based on the lietel paper. And we’ve been able to look at the degree to which the level of that polygenic score has changed across thousands of years of greek history, going up to the present. The most recent genomes come from the present, the contemporary Greeks. They come from the Simon’s genome diversity project. What we find is from the neolithic, Minoan and mycenaean Greek period, there is an increase in iq, sort of increases in a negative, accelerated way. It reaches an asymptote towards the end of the mycenaean period, which is what you’d expect because of the archaeological record of the mycenaeans and such, that they sort of went into a dark age. And, there was a thing called the greek dark ages, which last a long time before you had the regeneration of greek culture of the hellenic Greeks and golden thought. But hellenic Greeks, particularly the hellenic Greeks of Athens, were especially highly intelligent. He said there were two grades. That’s about 10 and a half iq points times two above, so 20.1 iq points above the victorian average. And one of the interesting things about this is there are two competing models about the rise of the mycenaeans. And one model is that they basically came in and wiped out the minoans. They just genocided them. Essentially, they just defeated them. They conquered them. They, you know, they genetically intermingled with them, took the women and, and killed the men and children, and just settled and eventually replaced the old Minoan civilization. And the other model is that there are a series of volcanic eruptions in the area, which caused environmental degradation, which weakened the minoans and made them sort of vulnerable to being taken over and want them. Paleocognitive genetic data indicates is that what we’re looking at here is a eugenic expansion of the again, I’m using this term eugenic not to describe good versus bad, but to describe forms of selection which involve high levels of group selection, which promote group fitness, versus forms of selection which promote individual level fitness, maybe at the expense of the group. These being disjoints, read my monographs. What the question? The issue is that in terms of the uh, in terms of the uh, what we’re seeing here, we’re seeing evidence that the Mycenaean Greeks replaced the minoans, the very higher Iq population that replaced a lower Iq population. This is actually consistent with Lynn’s model, and it’s consistent with the idea that that these population replacement events are a major factor in changes in the patterns of IQ.</p>
:ET