I"T<p>Is any advice for academically inclined people who can’t stand modern universities? On the academicly inclined people who cant stand on modern universities.</p>

<p>Well, my simple advice to this is, don’t go to modern universities. I honestly think that the university system is a huge, huge bubble. And it’s, it’s the case that it’s a huge time sink as well. You’re wasting vast amounts of time trying to get a degree, which which, for the most part, unless you’re getting it from sort of Harvard or somewhere, or oxford, it’s not really going to help you that much in in the real world. So it’s, it’s a massive time sink. It just puts you into debt. It most people who go to university are not going there for the right reasons. It’s uh, you go, if you go to University in England, Oxford, cambridge, and, to a lesser extent, Darwin, Bristol, London, and these these various prestigious universities, ancient universities, whatever that has a cachet to it. If you go to these these new places, the uni type places, where you go to uni, red bricks, worse than red bricks, like, some red bricks are quite prestigious, like nottingham or Bristol, but places like, you know, like leicester, or or or even worse, de montfort university in Leicester reserves your seat of learning here. Then it doesn’t give you any cachet really, I i suppose, if it gives you a clear qualification. So a degree in from, unless from de montfort university in Leicester, it’s something saleable, then then fair enough, fine. But a degree in english literature from somewhere like that, what’s the point? It doesn’t the point of having a degree in literature is to show off that you’re clever. And if you’re clever, you get your meetings, which are from somewhere good. So, so that’s why I think it’s, it’s an insane bubble. And you just get all these people doing office work of the kind that you literally get in the office, like the seriously office boring jobs. And because, and you have to have a degree now, because there’s so many people competing for them. It’s ridiculous. Um, they need they don’t need it. Better get a marketable skill and get a degree in something traditional, from a nontraditional university. Degrees untraditional for a nontraditional university is a complete waste, waste of time. You might as well just read books. And particularly that in those days, of course, 20 years ago when we were at university, you couldn’t do that. There was no internet really. You had access to the library. That was one thing that was good about it. But now you don’t need out. You’ve got everything’s online. So so the whole point of doing doing a degree in something traditional from a nontraditional university, I think, is undermined. Why they go to these places, these these community colleges in America and do degrees in english literature,</p>
:ET