I"~
<p>Save Sweden? It’s already the greatest islamic nation in history. After the collapse, selection might be for something other than intelligence, such as what?</p>

<p>Well, this is a good question. For example, could it be that being more aggressive and more impulsive could be something that is strongly favored under a hypothetical future regime of selection? Well, for a period, presumably period. But this is the thing, a lot of people talk about this, talk about intelligence, as if it were forgotten conclusion. But there there’s a thing called, actually, let me get into a bit of deep law with evolution. Okay, back in the 1900s, phylogenists, so people who started phylogenetic processes, started running around asserting that there were all these laws operating in evolution, right? So there’s this thing called Dollo’s law. And Dollo’s law is the idea that a species, once it’s acquired a particular trait, loses that trait, right? And once it’s lost the trait, the trait is gone forever, and at no point in that speech that species history will it ever reacquire the trait. Well, it turns out that’s not strictly true. So examples of like the stick insects, of a fast media in order of insects, where they’ve actually lost and recovered the ability to fly four times in the course of earth phylogeny. Another one is copes law. This is the idea that things start off very simple, like as unicellular living things in the precambrian period, and then they end up um evolving towards complexity. So this sort of faith that we have that once we’ve lost intelligence, it will necessarily come back again, it might do, but then again, it might not. It might be that we continue evolving towards greater sort of social complexity and more neurocognitive complexity. It might be that the opposite trend starts to become favored, and we actually despecialize and become more civil and start moving away from this sort of complexity. There are several instances of taxa, which are known from traces in the cambrian fossil fauna and flora, where they seem to have devolved from state of being multicellular to being highly unicellular, which is a complete reversal of Cope’s law. So this is the thing the question I have is, we don’t know if we’re going to reacquire lost intelligence once it’s lost. But there’s no reason why we can’t, given the existence of, uh, of of the right sort of selective pressures. But it’s not something we can take to the bank. It’s not a guarantee. There’s no law in evolution that says we will reacquire the lost characteristic once it’s once it’s once it’s been sort of lost in the course of phylogeny.</p>
:ET