I"Y<p>I imagine the average iq of Oxford Undergraduates is going down because they are increasingly fixing, um, using social engineering, who goes to oxford. And so if you’ve got, probably been to private school, you’re discriminated against in a way you didn’t used to be, even though it could be that you’ve got a private school because your parents are rich, because your parents are clever, and therefore you’ve inherited their intelligence. But they’ll just discriminate against you, and they won’t let you in. So probably the average iq of the Oxford undergraduate is going down. Um. And and then also, there will be the wokification of the lecturers. And so therefore the average iq of the lecturers may well be going down. And they’ll be bringing in people that are stupider. And so this idea that Oxford and cambridge are the most elite universities is not going to last forever. And increasingly, among people in England who are part of the elite, they don’t go there. They go to America to go to university.</p>

<p>There are recent examples of this in France. Do you remember an institution called the Sorbonne? It’s also know as Paris 4. There’s seven universities in Paris, universal, part of the University of Paris System. And its most elite university, Paris 4, was for Sorbonne. Prior to the 1960s, it was very selective. It was a very competitive university, very strict admissions criteria, and it led the world, essentially. But in the 60s, they reformed the entry admission system due to student activism. Essentially massive disruption took place in 1960s, and they relaxed all the admissions rules. It meant that anyone who wanted to go to any university in in France could go there. So to the sorbonne wherever, it didn’t matter. And this led to the storm just disappearing as a as a competitive institution just vanished.</p>

<p>And then to compensate for this, as the elite inevitably do, they always find a way that when they’ve ruined something, they always find a way of eking out a little niche or refugia for themselves and their spawn, essentially, that’s protected from these defects. The french then created these civil service colleges called enses or eccol national Superior. They are the most elite institutions in France. They basically cater to the civil service and the young of the civil service who want to go on to become civil servants and people like that Macron.</p>

<p>No, I think they already existed, but perhaps the prestige transferred over to those. That’s, that’s the impression I get. Because it used to be this thing in England, among the english upper class or whatever, that one of the things you do, would you go go to Oxford Cambridge and then go and do a master’s degree at the sorbonne, a) you’re showing off the fact that you can speak french and b) you’re at the Sorbonne.</p>

<p>My mother went to the Sorbonne. So, so she speaks jollie good French does she does this, Mrs …. she’s fluent. She would if she’d been there. That’s Lady [ __ __ ] to you. No, no, I’m english, and she’s gentry.</p>

<p>I was applying to university, you’d be thinking about things like, you’d be thinking about, what are the tuition fees of ludicrous? Why not go to University in Europe somewhere? Now, they all speak English there, which they didn’t do 20 years ago. Why not go to University in Europe, when I go to University in Eastern Europe, where the tuition fees are very low, and I imagine the educational standards probably very high, somewhat like Romania. Where it’s not going to be corrupted by political correctness. Now, presumably there’s any limited degrees they do in English at these places. I know, for example, you can study through the medium of English to be a doctor in Latvia.</p>

<p>I have direct experience of teaching in european universities. And I’ve taught graduate level classes in at a swedish university and also the german university. And one thing I found very interesting is that virtually all the graduate tuition takes place in English. So nearly all of these graduate level seminars are held in English. And yes, this is, English really is a universal language of particularly scientific research. These science courses I was, I was teaching. The fluency level in English is extremely high as well. Over in East Germany, english language proficiency isn’t so high, largely because of the legacy of the Soviet Union. There’s a lot of second language russian speakers, but english speaking is sort of somewhat deteriorated over there, atrophied. The English in Latvia was very good among the students, but it was very poor among the local population. I was very specific demographic that spoke english among the local population. Young people tended, almost, this is 2012, young people that looked rich, or looked like hippies. They spoke English, under the age of 30, looked rich. Looked like hippies.</p>
:ET