I"<p>If second cousins, says, Mr Gibbs, with within a longstanding island population of 25 000, breed three children, what are the typical predictions for their iq, personality, etcetera.</p>

<p>He’s the second cousins, right? So said, I under twenty five thousand. Okay, well, the iq would drop very quickly in the absence of purifying selection, that’s what will happen. And it’ll drop very quickly because basically, uh, the first cousins will lose Iq. The offspring will lose iq at a rate of about six points per generation. So this has been shown now using runs of homozygosity, which is a genetic index of how inbred a population is. Homozygosity is where you have, you know, genome, essentially, you have two, two alleles which cooccur the same locus, rather than just, you know, one allele here, one allele here, etc. So you have these homozygous sort of runs of genome. And the idea is that for iq, having too many of these runs of homozygosity, for deleterious alleles, has a multiplicative effect, you know, nonlinear, so a nonadditive effect on the the Iq level. So not always having one allele is bad. Having two alleles is really, really bad. This is a process called synergistic epistasis. So you have like a double dose. But the the idea is that, uh, perhaps for second cousins, if you look at the Stud results for first cousins, it might be that, I don’t know, you could lose iq in the offspring at half the rate. It could be less than half a rate, if there’s multiplicity in the equation, so it could be one, two, three points per per generation. And if you couple that with a small population size of, say, 25 000, and you’re really not mixing with outside genes, and you have another problem, which is you have a bottleneck, right? That’s a, that is 25 000 is a really rather small population. So it means that, in the absence of purifying selection, new alleles, you know, new deleterious alleles, which arise due to mutation accumulation, will are more likely to, stochastically, reach fixation within the population.</p>

<p>Okay, so so what I mean by that is that there is this model, right called stochastic fixation, which is just a very simple model. So this is the idea that the frequency of alleles sort of jumps up and down over time, right? But the likelihood that the allele, sort of amplitude of this, of this oscillation of frequencies in alleles, in new alleles within a population, is strongly related to population size. So generally, the relationship between the two, population size decreases, the amplitude increases. So in other words, with small populations, there’s a much higher probability that new alleles will reach fixation within that population due to heightened inbreeding. It’s another one, smaller population, smaller gene pool, more likelihood you’re going to get homozygosity for, you know, for deleterious alleles, which increases the likelihood those alleles are just going to get fixed in the population, and they’re going to stay as part of mutation load. So populations shrink. Inbreeding increases, the frequency of bad stuff goes up. Yeah, absolutely, may interject. So willing to practice cousin marriage, under conditions of darwinian selection in India or whatever, Pakistan, then, the children that were that would that were mutated, whatever that had, that had double doses due to that, that cousin marriage, they would just die. It would allow you to cooperate and allow you to to to trust people, and and behind ethnocentrism, a positive, negative ethnocentrism, and and that sort of thing. Um, it wouldn’t allow you to develop. It wouldn’t help trust of other other tribes in the society. Would create a tribal society. That would be a downside. But would there be a downside in terms of iq under darwinian selection? That’s a very good question. And the the answer to that is, maybe, maybe not. It’s possible that, it’s possible iq can take a hit in populations due to higher levels of inbreeding in instances where having high iq, ultra high iq, is not that much of an advantage. Anyway. Like he wasn’t necessarily going to be advantageous to all people at all places in history and all points in on the globe. In some instances, it might actually be a liability to have. Like you’ve written about the finns. The finns have a very high iq, but they seem to have a very low variance for a lot of trades. And this suggests that the finns are kind of optimized for a certain level of Iq in a stabilizing selection sense, which is probably a good buffer against dysgenic effects, which is probably why you don’t have a lot of dysgenics in finland and other scandinavian countries. You know, it’s present in Sweden, but it’s sort of not really present in Finland, from what I understand from your own work. Basically now. But it’s taken longer. It might have started in the 50s or something, instead of 1850s. Industrialized later. You do get, you do get evidence here of a lot, of a lot of double doses of harmful genes because the small population though. I mean, I was out in the pub in olive on Saturday, and there were two young quite you know, the makeup young dwarfs. And they were, and they were, and they were very dwarf. I mean, i’m, I’m thinking like two foot tall. I think you’ve never seen a human that short. I, well, three foot there. But, I mean, like, they were young. They were shorter than my son, anyway, and he’s seven years old. They were considerably shorter than him. I didn’t know what it was like, sort of, I can’t what would it be, but i’d be like, the child the size of a fouryearold, yeah, and, and, um, a fiveyearold. And that’s noticeable here. You see it again and again. I’ve never really seen it in the Uk. Um, anyway, I very dwarf yesterday. That’s, that’s how I summarize. They’re perfectly friendly, though. I’ve got</p>
:ET