I"<p>Talk about the latent inhibition combined with low or high iq.</p>

<p>Yes, you can think about latent inhibition as a kind of Bandwidth. Define latent inhabition.</p>

<p>Latent Inhibition describes think of it like Bandwidth, essentially. It’s the amount of information that your brain can take in from the environment at any given point in time. So normally, people take in far more information than they can actually filter and they can actually use, which is why they have these perceptual filters.</p>

<p>There’s a very interesting experiment that’s conducted on sort of large audiences, essentially, i’ve been a participant in these experiments before, many years ago, which involves showing a bit of footage of basketball players playing basketball, essentially. And you’re told to basically pay attention to the game, and then you’re asked to report if anything unusual happened. Well, but what they do during the course of the game is they have someone dressed as a stormtrooper, you know, from Star wars, walk on, do a little sort of dance, and then walk off again. And about is amazing, about 50 percent of the audience don’t even realize that happened. Because at the end of the video, when the person running the experiment says, okay, so who here? Of you who here know to notice the stormtrooper, maybe only about 50 of her hands go up. So that’s latent inhibition.</p>

<p>Some people are very narrow they have Laserlike focus. They have very good perceptual filters. If they’re tasked with focusing on one specific action or one specific thing, they will only pay attention to that thing, and they will filter out everything else. Other people, however, can’t do that. Other people take in more information. They have leaky filters. And, in very extreme cases where the filters are especially leaky, this can cause two what you could call promiscuous mixing of the senses. Okay, so this can lead to these weird sort of synesthesias and and schizophrenic type ideations where people start hallucinating and smelling colors and all that sort of thing. So very, in very extreme cases, having low latent inhibition is bad because it just overwhelms the brain.</p>

<p>However, it turns out that having having moderately low latent inhibition, which relates very strongly, by the way, to the personality dimension of psychoticism, coupled with high iq, is a recipe for extraordinary creativity. And there have been some studies conducted on students at Yale University, a very rarefied bunch in terms of intellectual capability, where they have found that latent inhibition, combined with iq, is predictive of the degree to which those students have attained some degree of personal eminence, be it publishing papers, these are undergraduates, so having published papers, having had patents, having started successful businesses, having written popular books, etc, etc. And it turns out, yes, the interaction between those two is strongly associated with creative achievement. So it turns out it’s not simply enough to have high iq, nor is it simply enough to have a good, sort of creative brain, as measured by low latent inhibition.</p>

<p>But you need the ability to make sense of all of that sensory over spill, essentially, uh, all of that. So the breakdown of a filter, all of the novel information flooding your brain, you need to be able to make sense of it, and you need to be able to combine it in novel and useful ways. And that is the essence of creativity, essentially, based on this particular model. It’s also the model to which I subscribe, because we’re all creative creativity models, and this is my, my preferred model, is the latent inhibition model.</p>

<p>It makes a lot of sense, because it would mean that you would, you would literally take in more information, and so there’d be more information with which you can analyze. And have to be an optimum that otherwise you’d, you’d go bonkers.</p>

<p>Francis Gaulton was the first to realize that this. Gaulton was the first to notice that one of the advantages of being highly intelligent, or rather, one of the ways that it may manifest, is in the ability to notice subtle gradations between different sensory inputs. So that already tells you a lot about the way that high iq brains are configured. Iq was correlated with latent inhibition. They do seem to be associations. They’re such higher Iq brains seem to have bigger bandwidths. They seem be able to take in more information. And this is reflected in an ability to notice fine gradations of differences in physical quantities, like weights, or differences in shades of color, or differences in pitch, etc. Yes.</p>

<p>And color discrimination, which we’re getting worse at, is correlated with intelligence. And it’s the same, of course, it’s the same, exactly the same principle, that you can take in more information, and therefore you can kind of do more with it. The subtle difference is the difference, but the ability to notice a subtle difference is the difference between solving the problem, and not solving the problem. So you can see how it would fit with  intelligence, at least at a very high level.</p>

<p>But of course, it would mean that intelligent people would be more likely to be, presumably, sensitive to noise and sensitive to smell, and just hyper sensitive.</p>

<p>And there are genetic correlations between iq and something that is grotesquely mislabeled as autism. Some phenotype that, uh, that someone has decided is autism, actually does seem to correlate with Iq, which, which would be consistent with the fact that one of the, one of us all very broad, slapdash diagnostic criteria associated with autism is is sort of misfolia, or or heightened sensitivity, possibly even intolerance to excessively loud noises, or certain sort of strange textures, certain types of food, etc. And, we all know people like this who can’t eat a particular kind of food that reminds them of something. And these people are seem to be associated with high iq, in so far as there appear to be genetic correlations now emerging from the clinic…</p>
:ET