I"T<p>People often attribute jewish over achievement to their high intelligence, which leads to a disproportionate number of them at the far right of the bell curve. So two standard deviations plus in Iq. Not all of jewish overachievement can be explained by this. For instance, I read something that there are seven times as many, nonjewish whites with Iq’s of 130 or 140 plus. Uh, in the Us. Must be higher in other indigenous european countries, I guess. And reading this not much is said of other psychological traits lead to achievement.</p>

<p>That’s a very, very good question. And in fact, I have coauthored a paper with Curtis Stunkel and vander Linden, in which we looked at the gfp, the general factor of personality, which is a measure of social effectiveness. And we looked at it for different religious groups, including Jews and also atheists, various christian nations. So we had some multiple groups. And what we found consistently was, not only, not only did Ashkenazi Jews have a a much higher level of this social effectiveness trait, this gfp, general factor of personality, than the other groups. I’m talking about a much higher level.</p>

<p>They there was also a Jensen effect, by which I mean the more gfp loaded personality dimensions showed the biggest differences between the Jews and the other groups we considered. So it seems that there are these very substantive differences in personality. And this might be consistent with some of Kevin’s mcdonald’s theories about Jews having very slow life histories, because Gfp is genetically correlated with other life history measures. So this might be part of the sort of life history matrix where they have?</p>

<p>Did that gfp finding control for sex it? I believe so. And what’s more, is it replicated? Curtis actually replicated it in another paper. He replicated it in a third sample and published it in another journal. But there are two papers out there on this.</p>

<p>Paper one jewish men being higher in New York, not women were higher in neuroticism than. I found the nuances something interesting because of the jewish massive over contribution to the arts particularly. And on the one hand, you could say, okay, they have high linguistic intelligence, and that, as I understand it, relative to their spatial intelligence. The the Jews are overrepresented among architects, but not nowhere near as much as they are among like, lawyers and so according to Lynn’s book.</p>

<p>Verbally tilted, in addition to very high g, which, which must account for something. Because the Japanese, I was just thinking in terms of the arts, the moderate neuroticism, that the optimum eroticism, tends also to be associated, a) with doing well academically, and b) doing well in arty things. So, creative incentivizes them. So that also might help to explain, um, very the representation among Ashkenazi Jews in the in the art.</p>

<p>Of course, the question is, is the japanese question? This was, this was for 0.2 bitcoins, um, which is about, uh, I don’t know how much that is, but I got more point two bitcoins for this. This is a, this question is a good question, because it’s very easy for people to get focused on iq. And I keep differences in the idea of Iq is all that matters. It’s the only sort of meaningful yardstick by which we can measure success or potential.</p>

<p>And the reality is that, no, actually, you have these other factors, like the general factor of personality, which is completely uncorrelated genetically with iq. It’s a totally separate thing. And it has a very pronounced and independent effect on success in life. There are some metaanalysis conducted by the vander Linden group who’ve shown that this gfp is as good at predicting, if not better, at predicting real life outcomes, than the individual big five or the individual personality dimensions that make it up. So essentially it’s a, yeah, it’s a, it’s an interesting measure, and it is something that shows a very pronounced group difference, and it is probably something that contributes, above and beyond Iq, to the to the very high levels of success at this particular group.</p>
:ET