I"H<p>Boomers not tech savvy, stuck in postwar egalitarian Paradigms, with even conservative boomers unable to reject hippie …</p>

<p>well, that’s you, you’re like an antiboomer in that case. But the, but, yeah, that’s a good description of the boomer. They they are, you know, sort of recap. They’re sort of recalcitrant egalitarians who grew, grew up in a period of absolutely extraordinary wealth. They, they literally only had to walk outside their front doors to get opportunities rained down on them like manna from Heaven. And they have this attitude that young people just need to go out and work, and they need to, you know, they need to go and just get jobs and just do things that they did in order to… they don’t sort of get that there are these huge shifts which have taken place economically, many of which are bad, and many of which they themselves caused, right? Baby boomers, though, baby boomers, yes, so this is baby boomers, that’s right. But the, you know, there are a couple of memes associated with boomers, like young people who affect boomers. Like the 30 year old boomer Meme, right? So you just need to look this stuff up.</p>

<p>That’s just interesting. It was just based off the war. Sort of boring. What the forces basically. That’s what we’re talking about, are we?</p>

<p>The Boomers were born between 45 and 1961? My parents were born in the early 50s. That’s right. They’re not technically boomers, but you can be a spiritual boomer, right? By having, by having essentially assimilated some of the sucky attitudes towards life, 1960s. So that’s a boomer, surely?</p>

<p>Um, well, born in the 96, early 60s. Boomer. 50. Early 50s.</p>

<p>Oh, early 50s. Yeah, they’re boomers. My parents finished teach training college, and was just given a job as a teacher by the time, yes, that’s right. This is how tenure used to work. If you were any good, right as a student, you would just be wafted up into a tenured position. That’s how it used to work. But don’t forget, you had far fewer numbers of people in academia, in addition to which you also had far more competent people in academia. And you had smaller, more closed networks, trustbased networks, where academia actually was functional and viable as a system. Whereas today, you just have, today, you have boomers who’ve taken those positions who now farm, right? They farm these undergraduates with these false hopes that they go and graduate students with these false hopes that they’re actually going to get into um, get into these positions, when, in fact, here’s some interesting statistics for you. Did you know that 50 of every phd never publishes a single paper? And did you know that among the 50 of those phd students that do publish a paper, another 50 do not publish a second paper? It’s true. So most phd students with papers have one paper would have come out of a phd student, a phd thesis, rather. Yes, it’s incredible.</p>

<p>Someone shows you someone has referred. Yes. I mean, you’re getting more and more phds in the church. When my wife works for you if you’re, if you’re, basically, if you’re a woman and you’re not yet menopausal, and you want to get a job in a senior position, you have to have a doctorate, otherwise they won’t take you seriously. You’re just a stupid young girl. So you get, you get doctors going in into that, and you get more and more phds in in various positions. Yeah, it’s, I mean, someone’s referred to universities as a fleecing operation. And, I would absolutely agree with that. I became very aware of it when I was a postgraduate, because you had all these Americans there. And they were only there for because they paid, we, we had to pay tuition fees, normally, we were funded anyway. But of I know what it was three grand a year, with the Americans, it was nine grand a year. And so they were there to pay their nine grand a year. And there was a particular theologian who was professor of theology Oxford. I can’t remember his name, but he was very popular among evangelicals. You know, he was one of those, one of those silly systematic theologians, or whatever they called, you know, where they’re not really, they’re not really logical anyway, they’re basically a guru, they’re a guru, right? And he, and he, he had a following in America with the following so they, they headhunted him from Oxford to aberdeen. And all he did was was Phd. Supervision. His day, he get up in the morning, if you want to spend your money on that, that’s fine. He would get up in the morning, um, and he and he would, and he would just supervise people all day. Young Americans wanted, you know, with hopes. Absolutely. And it’s also fleecing operation in terms of knowledge, because it’s, it’s trying to tell us that, oh, yeah, we’re here, and we’re this ivory tower. That’s, that’s daring to produce real knowledge that’s motivated by the truth. That’s kind of neoplatonist, if you like, or neothomas or whatever, has a fundamental belief in the truth. And of course, not true. That was the case when these boomers went into the university. And they have managed to alter it such that they the whole thing is, of course, highly ideological. And the truth is a convenience, or sometimes an inconvenience. So I think it’s fleecing society, and I think it’ll be, it’s undoing. I think more and more interesting research will move outside and you’re right.</p>

<p>It’s a bubble. And this whole citizen science movement which is now arising, um is utterly subverting and humiliating them. You only have to look at some of the work that people in our circle are doing.</p>
:ET