I"<p>Are humans hardwired to believe the sky is always going to fall? Are we hardwired to believe in some kind of crisis?</p>

<p>Here’s the thing. I believe that wherever you have regularity in populations, so if you have a population that’s prone to cycling, in other words, you have boom bust, boom and bust, what you have there is what evolutionary psychologists would refer to as a recurrent feature of the environment. And when you have a recurrent feature of the environment, you have the potential for adaptive evolution to take place. In other words, an adaptation can arise to allow a population, inbue, population, with the ability to anticipate that recurrent feature of their environment in some, you know, domain specific way.</p>

<p>There’s an interesting thing. Peter Turchen, who’s not an evolutionist, or he might be an evolutionist, he doesn’t apply evolutionary thinking to human populations. He does apply ecological thinking. However, he’s someone who is trying very hard at the moment to bless him, to come up with a kind of biohistoryfree way of predicting history, which he calls Clyodynamics.</p>

<p>I wish he’d be a little bit more like gregory clark, can start applying actual evolution or us, you know, and actually start applying evolutionary thinking to clyo dynamics. But he’s making a brave, uh, he’s, you know, he’s making a brave stand essentially.</p>

<p>He published a paper a little while ago which showed that historically, when populations start to worry, when you get largescale concern within a population for the future of that population, when people start getting worried about the future, often this concern precedes periods of civilization or declension or decline. So what he argues is that there’s a kind of wisdom of the crowds, and that when a pessimistic mood grips a population, that this is often not without reason. It doesn’t exist in a vacuum. It exists because people are very good at sensing things which are going wrong in their populations, and the mood adjusts to reflect this.</p>

<p>Actually people have domain specific adaptations which make them very sensitive to certain cues of civilizational decline such as degraded social epistasis. There has been postulated the existence of a deep social learning modular cluster, which we call the social epistasis integrity surveillance modules, which are exquisitely adapted to surveilling the sort of topology of social epistasis and moderating behavior, including behaviors related to sort of positive versus negative affect towards the future, based on the perception of civilizational health at the level of social epistatic transaction. And we think that these mechanisms are adaptive, but they actually prepare populations for civilizational decline.</p>

<p>Presumably you could get that on a micro level, so you could look at the rise and fall of on a micro level, and therefore, through that, you could understand economics, and the economic cycles, which is also something that he looks at turchen. So presumably you could comprehend these micro cycles as well, that you get this feeling, this feeling, this intuition that spreads. In 1929, let’s say that something’s going wrong, and people start withdrawing their money, and then it makes it worse.</p>

<p>Yes? Keynes had a term for this. He called it animal spirits. And I cadence is by far my favorite economist, um, because he’s hated by all the right people, all the people who I think are absolutely wrong, from marxists on the left to sort of austrian types on the right. All the right people hate him. And I think, yes, I think his term animal spirits was very, very good, very fitting descriptor of exactly what you’re you’re discussing here, which is this sense that people have of cycles. And even small scale cycles, like condriti of waves, for example, which should be 50 year long cycles. Or even smaller scale boom bust cycles you get, like recessions and things like that. I think, yes, I think people are, people are keyed into the sort of structure of social and economic transactions at a very deep level.</p>

<p>And I think people, some people better than others. Obviously there’s tremendous individual differences in this faculty that some people are are really very good. And I think the average person is actually quite good at being able to spot when things are going to hell in the handcart the opposite, that is, when things are starting to get better. This is why I return to the issue on whether we should, whether we we really need to be pessimistic, at least in the short term, for the vitality of western civilization.</p>

<p>One of the best indicators that you could possibly have of people becoming confident about future trends, like a potential boom, or silver age, I think is the term we use in the book, is fertility. And this is something that’s gone virtually uncommented upon. In Britain, for example, white fertility rates have gone up. Same with America. Since Trump took office, there has been a baby boom. That’s gone virtually uncommented on by the great and the good. But there has actually been a small baby will be seeing this in Italy and Hungary as well. There is a baby boom in these countries.</p>

<p>This is a healthy response to things getting a little bit better. Uh? People tend to invest in fertility when they think there’s a future to invest in. And the fact more people are doing this is, in my opinion, to be taking things… I think that, I think that one of the ways in which groups tend to deal with social defeat is is you get, you get fertility collapse.</p>
:ET