I"J<p>The question you have one has to ask is, is it actually, is it actually good to believe in God if you are a scientist?</p>

<p>And my sort of part take on this, which is very controversial, is, yes, I actually think it’s good to be a scientist who believes in God. And the reason I think this is because God is actually a point Charles Murray makes in his book human accomplishment. He notes that he doesn’t talk about dysgenics. He doesn’t interpret his decline in genius through a sort of dysgenics lens. He looks at it through a more proximate, culture level lens, and he looks at the role of what he calls Neothomism. This is the idea of each, each act of scientific discovery can be looked at as a sort of revelation, if you looked at like a form of divine revelation, or going out into the world, and you’re uncovering the secrets of the creation, essentially. And this is a, this is a divine act. It has sacred context, essentially.</p>

<p>And he argues that what this, what this did historically is it made people. It actually made people much, much more likely to be truthful because they were committed to a transcendent notion of truth, which was tied in with notions of blasphemy. The idea if you called lies, if you deceived people about what it is you found you manipulated data, this was almost a blasphemy. This was like trying to discard the scriptures or something. This is very, very serious, a very serious error, theological error as well as a scientific error. And this led to, this led to a period in which you had lots of geniuses, and you had lots of very brilliant scientific thinking going on.</p>

<p>Now, of course, this is confounded to a certain degree of the fact that both genius and high levels of religiosity are comorbid, if you like, with a syndrome of chronic group selection. So you’re going to get both, more of these things. Both of these things, under conditions have been increased into group competition. But, the fact of the matter is that it’s likely that there are certain synergies between these two things as well. In other words, they’re adaptively, it’s an adaptively logical way of configuring geniuses. Would be to have very devout, very, very, be very devoutly religious in some way, that kept them oriented towards transcendent truth seeking.</p>

<p>And you can also look at the flip side. Today, we have a replication crises, not just in the social sciences, but also elsewhere. It’s in the it’s in the medical sciences, it’s in the life sciences, although you won’t hear, you won’t hear much about those replication crises, but they’re there. You have people like diedrich staple. You have that shernan guy, who’s a solid state physicist who faked all of the data on the organic semiconductors and all this sort of thing. You have massive, sort of textbook scientific fraud going on everywhere.</p>

<p>And, one has to wonder to what extent these people all had a healthy sort of sense of religiosity, would they be, would they be so careerist? Would they commit, scientific fraud to the levels that we see in modern science? Indeed, would there be nearly as many people in the sciences today as was the case when populations were higher on religiosity? It’s a very good question.</p>

<p>And also, yeah, with regardless notions of truth, you almost certainly wouldn’t have these kinds of situations with Noah Carl. Because what Noah Carl is doing is stating the empirical truth based on the data that he has. That’s what he’s doing. And so he shouldn’t be criticized for that, as simple as that. It is wrong to criticize him for that, because he is, he is revealing more of of God’s revelation. From that perspective he’s doing the right he’s doing the morally good thing. He’s doing what God asks us to do, which is to understand his his creation. And that’s whether it’s the bible, or even more explicitly, actually, in the quran, it stated that you should. It allows political considerations to infest science, and it gives people more incentive to just lie, basically, just or come out with arguments which don’t put a premium on truth. There is no longer a premium on truth, because truth is expedient. Truth is subjective truth is just an expression of power.</p>

<p>At the end of the day, you end up with postmodernism. And Postmodernism explicitly rejects the idea of a superordinate truth in place of which you have merely competing narratives which are differentially privileged. And if there’s any sort of moral axiom guiding the way that one should interpret  these competing narratives, it is that it is that any inequality among the narratives is prima facie evidence of some kind of discrimination or some kind of privileging, and this needs to be deconstructed. And this is the sort of hermeneutics of postmodernist says, only absolute equality is, is to be tolerated.</p>

<p>So essentially, in the sense that a postmodernist orientation necessarily leads one to the conclusion that it is sometimes ethically expedient and ethically expedient thing to do to lie about maybe certain scientific findings. If it is indeed, considered the case that these scientific findings are causing inequality or have the potential to engender harm, then you end up with this situation in which we’re in today, where you have whole fields of research which are routinely lied about and slandered, and where there’s no interest in getting to the truth. And then the public versus the scientific, faces of these fields are completely at variance to one another. And there’s a sort of unity of knowledge problem. There’s no unity of knowledge.</p>

<p>They’re inconsistent. So if you look at Angela’s book, for example, on the one hand, she asserts it’s all to do with power, there’s no such thing as objective truth. And on the other hand, she says she wants to get to the truth about the issue of race. I mean, those those two things, you can’t do both. So on the one hand, they still have this remnant, if you like, from the old religion, the old religion of truth which still is, is still there, which still has power, like paganism and christianity, synthesizing the old, the old aspects of the old religion kind of still believed in. They’re not fundamentalist postmodernists. They’ve synchronized postmodernism with the previous idea, just like christianity with catholicism. Whatever took us took, I know, multiple gods and made them into saints, or took a female god and made that into the virgin mary, or whatever have they they that they’ve syncretized the two. So it’s an inconsis it’s an even more inconsistent position than is inherent in postmodernism, which is inherently inconsistent as a pragmatic philosophy.</p>

<p>Aquila temper state says, they detach us from the absolute, and I think that’s absolutely right. That could, that single sentence could sum up the last 10 minutes of waffle on on on both our parts.</p>
:ET