I"9	<p>I think that the question really pertains to the idea that genetic determinism and heritability are sort of linked in some meaningful way. So the idea is that if you have very high heritability, that does that leave room for environmental causation? And the answer is, if you, if you subscribe to the basic idea that heritability represents a ratio of genetic to environmental effects, then yes, more heritable a trait, the less room there is for environmental factors to play a role in creating individual differences. Therefore, you could say that with heritability is almost like a coefficient of genetic determination. And insofar as when you aggregate anything, you get a pros you get a a tendency for error, which is always normally distributed to cancel out of the extremes. So you end up with with aggregate estimates being, you know, and differences between aggregates always being greater the differences between individuals, because of this process of the central limit theorem, essentially. And this selfcleaning property of aggregates, in terms of error, heritability coefficients would be expected to rise when you’re comparing between groups as a result of that process.</p>

<p>So in a sense, group level processes like, for example, differences between species, would be a very extreme example of us, should be almost perfectly genetically determined. So in other words, virtually none of the difference between, say, humans and slugs, in terms of behavior, should be due to environmental factors. The whole of that difference should be due to genetic differences between the species, or, in this case, the classes of life or whatever. So yes, you aggregate, you necessarily increase the influence of genes, because he removed from the equation environmentality, most of which is just random error anyway, masquerading as environmentality, isn’t real environmentality.</p>

<p>Now, the exception is gene environment interactions, which will modify the heritability of the trait. There’s this thing called the scar rho effect. But I make the point of saying that, a, gene environment interactions and behavior genetics are very rare. And b, the ones which are quite robust, like the scar ro effect, are also very low magnitude. And the magnitude of the effects are so tiny that they don’t necessarily ruin heritability estimates.</p>
:ET