I"S<p>Is there a correlation between autism and urban sprawl? Seems like mouse Utopia. Would be interested if rural, a rural area, affected at the same rate, or at all?</p>

<p>Yes, I think that cities are probably going to be hotbeds of spiteful mutant activity, simply because of the nature of cities, the nature of urban, urban construction and development is such that you have high levels of interdependence, high levels of stratification, therefore a lot of opportunities for people to get in there and make mischief.</p>

<p>I don’t know about autism in cities. I don’t have any data that could speak to that. But we do have some data, interestingly, that shows that fluctuating asymmetry, is higher among urbanites than among ruralites, which is interesting. So they suggest that people in cities, under urban conditions, maybe under higher mutational stress and possibly other forms of developmental stress than people in the countryside.</p>

<p>Well, who lives in the countryside? It’s the nonmigrators and their descendants. So so what predicts migration. What predicts migration is extraversion, openness and and kind of individualism, and to some extent, intelligence. So those people would leave the countryside. So it would be people, if it’s the extent that they’re individualistic, who would be nongroup selected, I suppose, nonconformist. And so maybe it would in that way, select in favor of sort of mutant type people that would leave.</p>

<p>Yes, I think the urban rural, uh, distinction is a very interesting one in terms of the sort of people who are attracted to these environments. Very few people live in cities. And you might think, what’s he talking about? Cities are full of millions of people. Yes, they’re full of millions of people at any given point in time, but very few of those people live in the city permanently. Most of those people are commuters. They come in and they come out, or they come from other cities. So basically, cities are made up of this pop churn, essentially a population churn of individuals who are willing to move in some, in some cases, great distances, in order to get to their place of work, or play, in some cases, and then move back again to some typically some suburb. And the distance traveled by people increases and increases and increases over time, largely because you have the problem with sort of ghettoization in cities and, the formation of ethnic enclaves and things, which tends to cause white flight. This is a phenomenon that sociologists known about since the 1960s. This is increasing the amount of distance working people have to commute because they, generally, people don’t want to live together. Contrary to what people think, they want to live in their own, implicit communities. And they will often sacrifice, comfort in order to do this, including traveling great distances. So, cities are fascinating, really, from in terms of the sort of people who live in them, the reasons why people go there. I hate them personally. I’m a country boy, but I have absolutely hate cities. I visit London maybe twice a year, and it’s purely out of necessity.</p>
:ET