I"H
<p>Are we devolving as a species? In general, social norms seem to reflect this, especially in the Us.</p>

<p>There’s no preferred direction to to evolution. It’s clearly a a process driven purely by fitness tradeoffs. Um, but the, but, yes, I think a lot of people would look at the sort of general movement and would would generally not approve. But at the end of the day, there’s there’s no will to change the situation, really, is there? So therefore, things are not going to change. They’re in terms of the social norms. I always that paper by cattell, which was published in about 1936 or something, a society was declining intelligence quotient. And it’s also, it’s also cited, it’s discussed in hindsight of Murray, the Bell curve, and this extraordinary, prescient paper, which states that what’s going to happen is you’re going to have a society that’s increasingly just obsessed with sex. There’s this breakdown of all kind of politeness.</p>

<p>There’s a long list of the correlates of intelligence. And so you have things like altruism. Are we becoming less altruistic? Yes, we have data on that we are becoming less altruistic. There’s several convergent lines of data that suggest that actually. Artistic preference and ability, well, in terms of artistic genius, have we done anything really brilliant lately? We’re probably not. And we we pass off just basically mind games and and nonsense and shock value and whatever as as art. So, that’s, that’s implies that creativity. We present the data that the level of per capita genius, and it’s going down. Now, I don’t know how well regarded the instruments measuring creativity are, we’re actually becoming less creative. A healthy diet. Well, are we eating more healthy than we used to? Well, especially in America, presumably the argument is no, we’re not.</p>

<p>Height, there’s some evidence that height is plateaued. I don’t know about that. The recent trend in Egypt height’s decreasing. Sense of humor. I’d say that we haven’t produced anything genuinely funny and original for ages really. That’s why we do these remakes of dad’s army and these remakes of reggie perring, because we can’t come up with anything good. And we don’t just remake it, we make it worse. Yeah, of course it’s bound to be worse, because we’re less intelligent than we were.</p>

<p>If you listen to classical music recently, it’s quite appalling. As far as I’m concerned, it ended with gustav holst in the 1920s. What’s that? Classical music. Holst was probably the last classical composer by my reckoning.</p>
:ET