I"G<p>Maybe you can’t because you have adhd. Is Adhd real stroke related to mutational load? I would imagine so. Seems the diagnosis usually just pathologizes low conscientiousness and disagree and low agreeableness and high openness.</p>

<p>Well, this is the thing, adhd is kind of, I think it’s a real thing in the sense that there is a clearly pathological, uh condition associated with not having the ability to focus. And it may even be it was adaptive under certain conditions. So nomadism, for example. You don’t, you don’t want to be rooted in any one place or invested in any one mode of subsistence. You you probably want to be a bit kind of itinerant and generalized. You want to be an obligate generalist. And moreover, you want to actually, uh, be able to operate. But like this thing I was mentioning, a certain kind of genius who just never finishes something. They just kind of move on to the next thing. Um. So there is a, there is a, there are probably some functional and not so functional manifestations of adhd. But i’d also say this, and that is a lot of adhd is something a bit like autism that’s probably massively over diagnosed. But I think in the case of adhd, it’s all together more sinister. Whereas I think a lot of autism diagnoses, a lot, but not all, are used to cover up other forms of developmental instability, which are less politically correct, like intellectual disability, for example. I think in the case of adhd, you’re looking at a, you’re looking at what I think could be fairly described as the pathologization of masculinity. It is, it is a term which is often used to describe typical male traits, young male traits in particular. And young men don’t want to sit in a classroom for an hour at a time listening to someone drone on about something. Young women are happy doing that, because they’re very high on conscientiousness. They’re very diligent as sort of school mom type traits. Young men, they don’t like that. They don’t like being forced to sit down. I mean, i, I’m actually fairly typical of this. I’m not so young anymore, but I don’t like to sit through a conference, for example, with a block, you know, a block of talks, I won’t do it. I’ll sit through maybe 20 minutes of one talking, go out and, you know, then it’s Jan’s talk, so go out and get a coffee. Yeah, yeah, that’s right. I’ll do I’ll do it. I won’t sit through a whole block of talks. I and that that is, I think, a fairly typical male trait. The idea that it’s that a lot of young men are, basically, being medicalized, essentially. And then not only medicalized, but pharmacology is involved. You know, ritalin and amphetamines and things which probably cause brain damage when used to excess, are being used to try and curb this normal masculine urge to simply not sit through an extremely boring lecture of one disorder another. So the sort of feminization of the educational system is actually setting up a negative gene environment correlation, which is, which is causing more and more males to act out in male typical ways. And the reaction to this by the system</p>

<p>What are you saying? Sorry, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Are you saying that like 100 years ago, school, school, was more exciting or something? I would say, I would say it was certainly tailored more to male interests. And male patterns of behavior. And this might have been, so I understand how it was tailored to male interests, but how was it tailored to male patterns of behavior? They’re sitting in rows in front of a teacher with a cane.</p>

<p>Well, that’s precisely how actually, actually respond to that. They don’t respond to being just sort of being told off every now and again because they are fidgeting or what have you. And it was sort of one of the great tragedies of our era, because of our refusal to recognize the reality of sex differences, especially when they manifest very early on, uh, quite in quite profound ways. And we insist on this sort of cookie cutter template approach to education, we end up in a situation in which we literally use medicine to try and, deal with what is otherwise normal, sex typical behavior.</p>

<p>So basically they need to be thrashed, and then they wouldn’t build adhd.</p>

<p>That’s not what I’m saying.</p>

<p>Sorry. So you’re not saying, you’re not saying we should be like lobsters.</p>
:ET